Aadolf m Finnish (Rare)
Finnish form of Adolf.
Aarre m Finnish
Means "treasure" in Finnish. It may also be used as a variant of the uncommon older name Aaretti, itself from a Low German form of Arnold.
Aart m Dutch
Dutch short form of Arnold.
Aatto m Finnish
Finnish form of Adolf. It also means "eve, evening before" in Finnish, as the day before an important holiday.
Aatu m Finnish
Finnish form of Adolf.
Abbe m Frisian
Variant of Abe 2.
Abe 2 m Frisian, Dutch
Originally a Frisian short form of Adalbert (and other names starting with the Old German element adal "noble" and a second element beginning with b).
Achard m Old Norman
Medieval Norman form of Ekkehard.
Adalberht m Germanic
Old German form of Albert.
Adalbern m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements adal "noble" and bern "bear".
Adalbert m Germanic, German
Old German form of Albert. This is the name of a patron saint of Bohemia, Poland and Prussia. He is known by his birth name Vojtěch in Czech and Wojciech in Polish.
Adalberto m Italian, Spanish, Portuguese
Variant of Alberto.
Adalfarus m Germanic (Latinized)
Derived from the Old German elements adal "noble" and fara "journey".
Adalhard m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements adal "noble" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy". Saint Adalhard or Adalard was a cousin of Charlemagne who became an abbot of Corbie.
Adalwin m Germanic
From the Old German elements adal "noble" and wini "friend" (a cognate of Æðelwine).
Adalwolf m Germanic
Old German form of Adolf.
Adas m Lithuanian
Short form of names beginning with Ad, such as Adomas or Adolfas.
Adde m Frisian
Variant of Ade 2.
Ade 2 m Frisian
Originally a short form of Germanic names beginning with the element adal meaning "noble".
Adélard m French (Quebec)
French form of Adalhard.
Adelardo m Spanish (Rare), Italian (Rare)
Spanish and Italian form of Adalhard.
Adelbert m German, Dutch (Rare)
German and Dutch variant of Adalbert.
Adelmar m Germanic
From the Old German elements adal "noble" and mari "famous". It is a cognate of the Old English name Æðelmær.
Adelmo m Italian, Portuguese (Brazilian), Spanish (Latin American)
Italian, Portuguese and Spanish form of Adhelm, also used to refer to the English saint Ealdhelm.
Ademar m Portuguese
Portuguese form of Audamar (see Otmar).
Ademaro m Italian
Italian form of Audamar (see Otmar).
Ademir m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Brazilian variant of Ademar.
Adhelm m Germanic
From the Old German elements atto meaning "father" and helm meaning "helmet, protection".
Adi 3 m German, Romanian
Diminutive of Adolf (German) or Adrian (Romanian) as well as other names beginning with the same sound.
Adolf m German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Czech, Hungarian, Polish, Germanic
From the Old German name Adalwolf, which meant "noble wolf" from the elements adal "noble" and wolf. It was borne by several Swedish kings as a first or second name, most notably by Gustav II Adolf in the 17th century. Association with Adolf Hitler (1889-1945), the leader of the Nazi party in Germany during World War II, has lessened the use of this name.
Adolfas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Adolf.
Adolfito m Spanish (Rare)
Spanish diminutive of Adolfo.
Adolfo m Italian, Spanish
Italian and Spanish form of Adolf.
Ādolfs m Latvian
Latvian form of Adolf.
Adolph m English
English form of Adolf, rarely used since World War II.
Adolphe m French
French form of Adolf, rarely used since World War II.
Adolphus m Germanic (Latinized)
Latinized form of Adolf.
Age 1 m Frisian
Frisian form of Ago.
Agi m Germanic
Old German variant of Ago.
Agilulf m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements agil meaning "edge, blade" and wolf meaning "wolf". This name was borne by a 6th-century king of the Lombards and by an 8th-century saint (a bishop of Cologne).
Agimar m Germanic
Derived from Old Frankish aggju or Old High German ekka meaning "edge, blade" combined with mari meaning "famous".
Ago m Germanic
From the Old High German element ekka, Old Saxon eggia meaning "edge, blade" (Proto-Germanic *agjō). Alternatively it could be from Old High German egi meaning "fear" (Proto-Germanic *agaz). This was the name of a 7th-century Duke of Friuli.
Aike m Frisian
Diminutive of names beginning with the Old German element ekka meaning "edge, blade" or adal meaning "noble".
Aimar m Basque
Medieval Basque name, possibly derived from the Germanic name Agimar.
Aimeric m Germanic
Probably a variant of Heimirich. Aimeric (or Aimery) was the name of several viscounts of Narbonne between the 11th and 13th centuries. It was also borne by the first king of Cyprus (12th century), originally from Poitou, France.
Aimery m Medieval French
Old French form of Aimeric.
Ain m Estonian
Possibly an Estonian short form of Hendrik.
Aistulf m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements heisti "loud, violent" and wolf "wolf". This was the name of an 8th-century king of the Lombards.
Al m English
Short form of Albert and other names beginning with Al. A notable bearer is American actor Al Pacino (1940-).
Alajos m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Aloysius.
Alaois m Irish (Rare)
Irish form of Aloysius.
Alard m Germanic
Variant of Adalhard.
Alawar m Germanic (Hypothetical)
Possible Frankish cognate of Álvaro.
Albaer m Limburgish
Limburgish form of Albert. Its spelling has been influenced by the French pronunciation of Albert.
Alberic m Germanic
Variant of Alberich.
Alberich m Germanic, Germanic Mythology
Derived from the Old German elements alb "elf" and rih "ruler, king". It was borne by two Lombard dukes of Spoleto in the 10th century. It was also the name of a 12th-century French saint who helped found the Cistercian Order.... [more]
Alberico m Italian
Italian form of Alberich.
Albert m English, German, French, Catalan, Polish, Czech, Russian, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Finnish, Romanian, Hungarian, Albanian, Germanic
From the Germanic name Adalbert meaning "noble and bright", composed of the elements adal "noble" and beraht "bright". This name was common among medieval German royalty. The Normans introduced it to England, where it replaced the Old English cognate Æþelbeorht. Though it became rare in England by the 17th century, it was repopularized in the 19th century by the German-born Prince Albert, the husband of Queen Victoria.... [more]
Albertas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Albert.
Alberte 1 m Galician
Galician form of Albert.
Albertino m Italian, Portuguese
Diminutive of Alberto.
Alberto m Italian, Spanish, Portuguese
Italian, Spanish and Portuguese form of Albert.
Alberts m Latvian
Latvian form of Albert.
Albertus m Germanic (Latinized), Dutch
Latinized form of Albert. This is the official Dutch form of the name, used on birth certificates but commonly rendered Albert in daily life.
Albie m English
Diminutive of Albert.
Alboin m Germanic
From the Old German elements alb "elf" and wini "friend". It is a cognate of Ælfwine. This was the name of a 6th-century king of the Lombards who began the Lombard conquest of Italy.
Albrecht m German
German variant of Albert. A notable bearer was the German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer (1471-1528).
Aldebrand m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements alt meaning "old" and brant meaning "fire, torch, sword". Saint Aldebrand was a 12th-century bishop of Fossombrone in Italy.
Aldegar m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements alt "old" and ger "spear".
Aldéric m French (Quebec)
Variant of Aldric.
Aldert m Frisian, Dutch
Frisian form of a Germanic name, either Aldhard or Adalhard.
Aldhard m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements alt "old" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy".
Aldo m Italian, Germanic
Originally a short form of Germanic names beginning with the element alt meaning "old" (Proto-Germanic *aldaz), and sometimes also with adal meaning "noble" (Proto-Germanic *aþalaz).
Aldric m French (Rare), Germanic
From a Germanic name, derived from the elements alt "old" and rih "ruler, king". Saint Aldric was a 9th-century bishop of Le Mans.
Aldwin m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements alt "old" and wini "friend". This is a cognate of Old English Ealdwine.
Ale 2 m Frisian
Originally a short form of Germanic names beginning with the element adal meaning "noble".
Alf 3 m Swedish, Norwegian, Danish
Short form of Adolf.
Alfbern m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements alb "elf" and bern "bear".
Alfhard m Germanic
Old German name composed of the elements alb "elf" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy".
Alfher m Germanic
Old German name composed of the elements alb "elf" and heri "army" (making it a cognate of Alvar).
Alfwin m Germanic
Variant of Alboin.
Alibrand m Germanic
From the Old German elements alles meaning "other, foreign" and brant meaning "fire, torch, sword".
Alik m Russian
Diminutive of Aleksandr, Albert and other names beginning with the same sound.
Alix f & m French
Medieval French variant of Alice, also sometimes used as a masculine name. This is the name of the hero (a young Gaulish man) of a French comic book series, which debuted in 1948.
Alke m Frisian
Diminutive form of Ale 2.
Allard m Dutch
Dutch form of Adalhard.
Alle m Frisian
Variant of Ale 2.
Allison f & m English
From the middle of the 20th century this has primarily been used as a variant of the feminine name Alison 1. However, prior to that it was used as an uncommon masculine name, derived from the English and Scottish surname Allison.
Almir 1 m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Brazilian variant of Almiro.
Almiro m Portuguese
Meaning uncertain, possibly a masculine form of Almira 1.
Aloïs m French
French form of Aloysius.
Alois m German, Czech
German and Czech form of Aloysius.
Aloïse m & f French
French masculine and feminine form of Aloysius.
Aloísio m Portuguese
Portuguese form of Aloysius.
Aloisio m Italian (Rare)
Italian form of Aloysius.
Alojz m Slovene, Slovak, Croatian
Slovene, Slovak and Croatian form of Aloysius.
Alojzij m Slovene
Slovene form of Aloysius.
Alojzije m Croatian
Croatian form of Aloysius.
Alojzy m Polish
Polish form of Aloysius.
Aloys m Medieval Occitan
Medieval Occitan form of Louis.
Aloyse m French
French form of Aloysius.
Aloysius m English
Latinized form of Aloys, an old Occitan form of Louis. This was the name of an Italian saint, Aloysius Gonzaga (1568-1591). The name has been in occasional use among Catholics since his time.
Alpertti m Finnish (Rare)
Finnish form of Albert.
Alte 2 m Frisian
Originally a short form of names beginning with the Old German element alt meaning "old".
Altti m Finnish
Finnish form of Albert.
Altwidus m Germanic (Latinized)
Derived from the Old German elements alt "old" and witu "forest".
Alvise m Italian
Venetian form of Louis.
Alwin m German, Dutch, Germanic
Contracted form of Adalwin.
Amalbert m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements amal possibly meaning "unceasing, vigorous, brave" and beraht meaning "bright".
Amalrich m Germanic
Old German form of Amalric.
Amaury m French
French form of Amalric.
Américo m Portuguese, Spanish
Portuguese and Spanish form of Amerigo.
Amerigo m Italian
Medieval Italian form of Emmerich. Amerigo Vespucci (1451-1512) was the Italian explorer who gave the continent of America its name (from Americus, the Latin form of his name).
Amery m & f English (Rare)
Variant of Emery.
Amse m Frisian
Originally a short form of Adelmar (and other names starting with the Old German element adal "noble" and a second element beginning with m).
Andebert m Germanic
From the Old German element anto meaning "zeal" combined with beraht meaning "bright".
Ane 2 m Frisian
Variant of Anne 2.
Angilbert m Germanic
Variant of Engelbert.
Anne 2 m Frisian
Short form of names beginning with the Old German element arn meaning "eagle".
Anraí m Irish
Irish form of Henry.
Anri m Georgian
Georgian form of Henri.
Ansaldo m Italian (Rare)
Italian form of a Germanic name composed of the elements ansi "god" and walt "power, authority" (a cognate of Oswald).
Ansbert m Germanic
Composed of the Old German elements ansi "god" and beraht "bright". It is a cognate of Osbert. This name was borne by a 7th-century Frankish saint, a bishop of Rouen.
Ansegar m Germanic
Old German form of Ansgar.
Ansehelm m Germanic
Old German form of Anselm.
Ansel m English
From an English surname that was derived from the given name Anselm. A famous bearer was American photographer Ansel Adams (1902-1984).
Anselm m German, English (Rare), Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements ansi "god" and helm "helmet, protection". This name was brought to England in the late 11th century by Saint Anselm, who was born in northern Italy. He was archbishop of Canterbury and a Doctor of the Church.
Anselme m French
French form of Anselm.
Anselmi m Finnish
Finnish form of Anselm.
Anselmo m Italian, Spanish, Portuguese
Italian, Spanish and Portuguese form of Anselm.
Ansgar m German, Norwegian, Swedish, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements ansi "god" and ger "spear". Saint Ansgar was a 9th-century Frankish missionary who tried to convert the Danes and Norwegians.
Anshel m Yiddish (Rare)
Yiddish form of Anselm, used as a vernacular form of Asher.
Anso m Germanic
Short form of Germanic names beginning with the element ansi meaning "god" (Proto-Germanic *ansuz).
Ansoald m Germanic
Old German form of Ansaldo.
Anssi m Finnish
Finnish diminutive of Anselm.
Ante 2 m Frisian
Short form of names beginning with the Old German element anto "zeal".
Antelmo m Spanish (Rare), Portuguese (Rare), Italian (Rare)
Spanish, Portuguese and Italian form of Anthelm.
Anthelm m Germanic
From the Old German element anto meaning "zeal" combined with helm meaning "helmet, protection". Saint Anthelm was a 12th-century bishop of Belley in France.
Anthelme m French (Rare)
French form of Anthelm.
Anzo m Germanic
Derived from the Old German element enz meaning "giant".
Arch m English
Short form of Archibald.
Archembald m Germanic
Old German form of Ercanbald.
Archibald m Scottish, English
Derived from the Germanic name Ercanbald, composed of the elements erkan meaning "pure, holy, genuine" and bald meaning "bold, brave". The first element was altered due to the influence of Greek names beginning with the element ἀρχός (archos) meaning "master". The Normans brought this name to England. It first became common in Scotland in the Middle Ages (sometimes used to Anglicize the Gaelic name Gilleasbuig, for unknown reasons).
Archie m Scottish, English
Diminutive of Archibald. This name is borne by Archie Andrews, an American comic-book character created in 1941. It was also used by Prince Harry and Meghan Markle for the name of their son born 2019.
Arduino m Italian
Italian form of Hartwin.
Arend m Dutch, German (Rare)
Dutch and German variant of Arnold. This is also the Dutch word for "eagle".
Argimiro m Spanish
Spanish form of Argimirus, the Latin form of a Visigothic or Suebi name probably composed of the Germanic elements heri "army" and mari "famous". This name was borne by a 9th-century Spanish saint who was martyred by the Moors.
Argimirus m Germanic (Latinized)
Old German (Latinized) form of Argimiro.
Arild m Norwegian
Possibly a variant of Harald or Arnold.
Arioald m Lombardic (Latinized)
From Arioaldus, a Latin form of Hariwald. This was the name of a 7th-century king of the Lombards.
Arke 2 m Frisian (Archaic)
Short form of names beginning with the Old German element arn meaning "eagle".
Armand m French, Catalan
French and Catalan form of Herman.
Armandas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Armand.
Armando m Spanish, Italian, Portuguese
Spanish, Italian and Portuguese form of Herman.
Armands m Latvian
Latvian form of Armand.
Armani m & f English (Modern)
From an Italian surname meaning "son of Ermanno". It has been used as a given name due to the fashion company Armani, which was founded by the clothing designer Giorgio Armani (1934-2025).
Ármann m Icelandic
Icelandic form of Herman.
Arn m English
Short form of Arnold.
Arnaldo m Italian, Portuguese
Italian and Portuguese form of Arnold.
Arnas m Lithuanian
Originally a short form of names beginning with Arn, such as Arnoldas.
Arnau m Catalan
Catalan form of Arnold.
Arnaud m French
French form of Arnold.
Arnd m German
German short form of Arnold.
Arndt m German
German short form of Arnold.
Arne 2 m German
Diminutive of Arnold.
Arnfried m German (Rare)
From an Old German name derived from the elements arn "eagle" and fridu "peace".
Arnie m English
Diminutive of Arnold.
Arnifrid m Germanic
Old German form of Arnfried.
Arnis m Latvian
Originally a short form of Arnolds, now used independently.
Arno m Dutch, German
Short form of Arnoud or Arnold.
Arnoald m Germanic
Old German form of Arnold.
Arnold m English, German, Dutch, Polish, Germanic
From a Germanic name meaning "eagle power", derived from the elements arn "eagle" and walt "power, authority". The Normans brought it to England, where it replaced the Old English cognate Earnweald. It died out as an English name after the Middle Ages, but it was revived in the 19th century.... [more]
Arnoldas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Arnold.
Arnoldo m Italian (Rare)
Italian variant of Arnaldo.
Arnolds m Latvian
Latvian form of Arnold.
Arnolfo m Italian (Rare)
Italian form of Arnulf.
Arnošt m Czech, Sorbian
Czech and Sorbian form of Ernest.
Arnoud m Dutch
Dutch form of Arnold.
Arnout m Dutch
Dutch form of Arnold.
Arnt m Norwegian
Norwegian form of Arend.
Arnulf m German, Germanic
Germanic name derived from the elements arn meaning "eagle" and wolf meaning "wolf". This name was borne by a few early saints, notably a 7th-century Frankish bishop of Metz. It was also the name of a 9th-century Holy Roman emperor.
Arnulfo m Spanish
Spanish form of Arnulf.
Arrigo m Italian
Italian variant form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Ascelin m Germanic
Derived from a diminutive of the Old German element asc meaning "ash tree" (Proto-Germanic *askaz).
Asco m Germanic
Derived from the Old German element asc meaning "ash tree" (Proto-Germanic *askaz).
Asse m Frisian
Originally a short form of Germanic names beginning with the elements asc meaning "ash tree" or ansi meaning "god".
Astolfo m Carolingian Cycle
Italian form of Aistulf. In medieval Italian tales Astolfo is one of Charlemagne's knights, a cousin of Orlando and Rinaldo. He appears in the epic Orlando poems (1483 and 1532) by Boiardo and Ariosto.
Atse m Frisian
Variant of Ade 2.
Atte m Finnish
Finnish diminutive of Antero 1 and other names beginning with A.
Auberi m Medieval French
Old French form of Aubrey.
Auberon m Carolingian Cycle
From a diminutive form of Auberi, an Old French form of Alberich. It is the name of the fairy king in the 13th-century epic Huon de Bordeaux.
Aubert m French
French variant of Albert.
Aubrey m & f English
From Auberi, an Old French form of Alberich brought to England by the Normans. It was common in the Middle Ages, and was revived in the 19th century. Since the mid-1970s it has more frequently been given to girls, due to Bread's 1972 song Aubrey, along with its similarity to the established feminine name Audrey.
Audagar m Germanic
Derived from the Old Frankish elements aud meaning "wealth, fortune" and gair meaning "spear". It is a cognate of Edgar. This was the name of an 8th-century Frankish nobleman who was exiled by Charlemagne. He forms the basis for the character known as Ogier in later French tales.
Audamar m Germanic
Old German form of Otmar.
Audo m Germanic
Old German form of Otto.
Audoin m Lombardic (Latinized)
From Audoinus, the Latin form of the Germanic names Audowin or Aldwin. Audoin (or Auduin or Alduin) was a 6th-century king of the Lombards.
Audowin m Germanic
Derived from Old Frankish aud or Old High German ot meaning "wealth, fortune" combined with wini meaning "friend". This is a cognate of Edwin.
Autchar m Germanic
Variant of Audagar.
Avery m & f English
From an English surname that was itself derived from the Norman French form of the given names Alberich or Alfred.... [more]
Aymeri m Medieval French
Old French form of Aimeric. This is the name of a hero in medieval French romance, Aymeri de Narbonne.
Aymeric m French
French form of Aimeric.
Badulf m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements batu meaning "battle" and wolf meaning "wolf".
Badurad m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements batu "battle" and rat "counsel, advice".
Baer m Limburgish
Short form of Albaer and other Limburgish names ending in baer, often derived from the Germanic element beraht meaning "bright".
Balderich m Germanic
Old German form of Baldric.
Baldewin m Germanic
Old German form of Baldwin.
Baldilo m Germanic
Originally a diminutive of names containing the Old German element bald meaning "bold, brave" (Proto-Germanic *balþaz).
Baldo m Italian, Spanish, Germanic
Originally a short form of names containing the Old German element bald meaning "bold, brave" (Proto-Germanic *balþaz), such as Baldwin and Theobald. In Italian it can also be short for the non-Germanic name Baldassare.
Baldomar m Germanic
Old German form of Baldomero.
Baldomero m Spanish
Derived from the Old German elements bald "bold, brave" and mari "famous".
Baldovino m Italian (Rare)
Italian form of Baldwin.
Baldric m English (Archaic)
Derived from the Old German elements bald "bold, brave" and rih "ruler, king". It was borne by a 7th-century Frankish saint, the founder of the monastery of Montfaucon. The Normans introduced this name to Britain, and it was common in the Middle Ages.
Balduíno m Portuguese (Rare)
Portuguese form of Baldwin.
Balduino m Spanish (Rare)
Spanish form of Baldwin.
Baldwin m English, Germanic
Means "bold friend", derived from the Old German elements bald "bold, brave" and wini "friend". In the Middle Ages this was a popular name in Flanders and among the Normans, who brought it to Britain. It was borne by one of the leaders of the First Crusade, an 11th-century nobleman from Flanders. After the crusaders conquered Jerusalem, he was crowned as the king of the Kingdom of Jerusalem.
Bardulf m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements barta "axe" and wolf "wolf".
Barend m Dutch
Variant of Bernhard.
Barney m English
Diminutive of Barnabas, Bernard or Barnaby.
Baudilio m Spanish
From Baudilius, a Latinized form of a possibly Frankish name formed of the element bald "bold, brave". Saint Baudilius (or Baudilus) was a 3rd or 4th-century saint who was martyred at Nîmes in France.
Baudouin m French
French form of Baldwin.
Baugulf m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements boug meaning "ring, bracelet" and wolf meaning "wolf".
Bedřich m Czech
Czech form of Frederick.
Beltrán m Spanish
Spanish form of Bertram. It is sometimes given in reference to the 16th-century Spanish saint Louis Bertrand (Luis Beltrán in Spanish), a Dominican friar who preached in South America.
Ben m English, German, Dutch
Short form of Benjamin, Benedict and other names beginning with Ben. In Dutch it can also be short for Bernhard. A notable bearer was Ben Jonson (1572-1637), an English poet and playwright.
Beñat m Basque
Basque form of Bernard.
Benno m German
Short form of German names containing the element bern "bear".
Bent 2 m Frisian
Frisian short form of Bernhard.
Bèr m Limburgish
Variant of Baer.
Ber m Yiddish
Means "bear" in Yiddish, a vernacular form of Dov.
Berahard m Germanic
Old German form of Berard.
Berahthraban m Germanic
Old German form of Bertram, using an extended form of the second element.
Berahthram m Germanic
Old German form of Bertram.
Berard m Germanic
Variant of Bernard using the related root bero "bear" as the first element. This was the name of a 13th-century saint from Carbio, Italy who was martyred in Morocco.
Berardo m Italian
Italian form of Berard.
Berend m Dutch
Variant of Bernhard.
Berengar m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements bern "bear" and ger "spear". This was the name of two medieval kings of Italy and a Holy Roman emperor.
Bérenger m French
French form of Berengar.
Berenguer m Catalan
Catalan form of Berengar.
Berenhard m Germanic
Old German form of Bernard.
Berhtoald m Germanic
Old German form of Berthold.
Bermudo m Spanish (Archaic)
Spanish form of Veremund.
Bernard m English, French, Dutch, Polish, Croatian, Slovene, Czech, Germanic
Derived from the Old German element bern "bear" combined with hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy". The Normans brought it to England, where it replaced the Old English cognate Beornheard. This was the name of several saints, including Saint Bernard of Menthon who built hospices in the Swiss Alps in the 10th century, and Saint Bernard of Clairvaux, a 12th-century theologian and Doctor of the Church. Other famous bearers include the Irish playwright and essayist George Bernard Shaw (1856-1950), the British World War II field marshal Bernard Montgomery (1887-1976) and the French cyclist Bernard Hinault (1954-).
Bernardino m Italian, Spanish, Portuguese
Diminutive of Bernardo. Saint Bernardino of Siena was a 15th-century Italian priest and preacher.
Bernardo m Italian, Spanish, Portuguese
Italian, Spanish and Portuguese form of Bernard.
Bernát m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Bernard.
Bernat m Catalan
Catalan form of Bernard.
Bernd m German
Short form of Bernhard.
Berndt m Swedish
Variant of Bernd.
Bernhard m German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Germanic
German, Dutch and Scandinavian form of Bernard.
Bernie m & f English
Diminutive of Bernard, Bernadette, Bernice and other names beginning with Bern.
Bernt m Swedish, Norwegian, Danish
Scandinavian form of Bernard.
Berny m & f English
Variant of Bernie.
Bert m English, German, Dutch
Short form of Albert and other names containing the element bert, often derived from the Old German element beraht meaning "bright".
Berthold m German
Means "bright power" from the Old German element beraht "bright" combined with walt "power, authority".
Bertie m & f English
Diminutive of Albert, Herbert and other names containing bert (often derived from the Old German element beraht meaning "bright").
Bertil m Swedish, Danish
Scandinavian form of Bertilo or Berthold.
Bertilo m Germanic
Originally a short form of Germanic names beginning with the element beraht meaning "bright, famous".
Berto m Italian, Spanish
Short form of Roberto, Alberto and other names containing berto (often derived from the Old German element beraht meaning "bright").
Bertoldo m Italian (Rare)
Italian form of Berthold.
Bertram m English, German, Germanic
Means "bright raven", derived from the Old German element beraht "bright" combined with hram "raven". This name has long been conflated with Bertrand. The Normans introduced it to England, and Shakespeare used it in his play All's Well That Ends Well (1603).
Bertrand m French, English, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements beraht meaning "bright" and rant meaning "rim (of a shield)". From an early date it has been confused with Bertram and the two names have merged to some degree. Saint Bertrand was an 11th-century bishop of Comminges in France. Another famous bearer was the English philosopher Bertrand Russell (1872-1970).
Bertrando m Italian (Rare)
Italian form of Bertrand.
Bhaltair m Scottish Gaelic
Scottish Gaelic form of Walter.
Bhàtair m Scottish Gaelic
Scottish Gaelic form of Walter.
Bill m English
Short form of William. This spelling was not commonly used before the 19th century. The change in the initial consonant may have been influenced by an earlier Irish pronunciation of the name. Famous bearers include basketball player Bill Russell (1934-2022), comedian Bill Cosby (1937-), American president Bill Clinton (1946-), and Microsoft founder Bill Gates (1955-), all of whom were born with the name William.
Billie m & f English
Diminutive of Bill. It is also used as a feminine form of William.
Billy m English
Diminutive of Bill. A notable bearer was the American outlaw Billy the Kid (1859-1881), whose real name was William H. Bonney. Others include filmmaker Billy Wilder (1906-2002), actor Billy Crystal (1948-), and musician Billy Joel (1949-).
Birk m German, Norwegian, Danish
Short form of Burkhard. This is the name of a character in Astrid Lindgren's book Ronia the Robber's Daughter (1981).
Blanchard m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements blanc meaning "white" and hart meaning "hard, firm, brave, hardy". This was the name of an obscure (perhaps legendary) 7th-century French saint.
Blue m & f English (Rare)
From the English word for the colour, derived via Norman French from a Frankish word (replacing the native Old English cognate blaw). Despite the fact that this name was used by the American musicians Beyoncé and Jay-Z in 2012 for their first daughter, it has not come into general use in the United States.
Bob m English, Dutch
Short form of Robert. It arose later than Dob, Hob and Nob, which were medieval rhyming nicknames of Robert. It is borne by the character Bob Cratchit in Charles Dickens' novel A Christmas Carol (1843). Other famous bearers include American folk musician Bob Dylan (1941-) and Jamaican reggae musician Bob Marley (1945-1981).
Bobbie f & m English
Variant of Bobby. As a feminine name it can be a diminutive of Roberta or Barbara.
Bobby m English
Diminutive of Bob. Hockey greats Bobby Hull (1939-2023) and Bobby Orr (1948-) have borne this name.
Bode m Low German (Rare)
Low German form of Bodo.
Bodo m German, Germanic
Derived from the Old High German element bot, Old Saxon bod meaning "command, order" (Proto-Germanic *budą). Saint Bodo, also called Leudinus, was a 7th-century bishop of Toul in northern France.
Boele m Dutch (Rare)
Possibly a Dutch form of Baldo.
Boudewijn m Dutch
Dutch form of Baldwin.
Brando m Germanic
Germanic name derived from the element brant meaning "fire, torch, sword".
Brandt m English
From a surname, a variant of Brant.
Brantley m English (Modern)
From a surname, an Americanized form of the German surname Brändle, ultimately from Old High German brant "fire".
Brecht m Dutch
Short form of names containing brecht, often derived from the Old German element beraht meaning "bright".
Broen m Limburgish
Limburgish form of Bruno.
Bru m Catalan
Catalan form of Bruno.
Brunello m Italian, Carolingian Cycle
Diminutive of Bruno. This is the name of a Saracen thief in the Italian epic Orlando poems (1483 and 1532) by Boiardo and Ariosto.
Bruno m German, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, French, Croatian, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Latvian, Germanic
Derived from the Old German element brunna meaning "armour, protection" (Proto-Germanic *brunjǭ) or brun meaning "brown" (Proto-Germanic *brūnaz). Saint Bruno of Cologne was a German monk of the 11th century who founded the Carthusian Order. The surname has belonged to Giordano Bruno, a philosopher burned at the stake by the Inquisition. A modern bearer is the American singer Bruno Mars (1985-), born Peter Gene Hernandez.
Brunon m Polish
Variant of Bruno.
Burchard m German (Rare), Germanic
Variant of Burkhard.
Burkhard m German, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements burg "fortress" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy", or perhaps from the Old English cognate Burgheard. Saint Burkhard was an 8th-century Anglo-Saxon missionary to Germany (a companion of Boniface) who became the first bishop of Würzburg.
Burkhart m German (Rare), Germanic
Variant of Burkhard.
Cai 1 m Swedish (Rare), Danish (Rare)
Variant of Kai 1.
Caíque m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Contraction of Carlos Henrique. This is also the name of a type of parrot that lives in the Amazon (genus Pionites).
Caj m Swedish (Rare)
Variant of Kai 1.
Carel m Dutch
Dutch form of Charles.
Carl m German, Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, English
German and Scandinavian variant of Karl (see Charles). Noteworthy bearers of the name include the Swedish biologist Carl Linnaeus (1707-1778), who founded modern taxonomy, the German mathematician Carl Gauss (1777-1855), who made contributions to number theory and algebra as well as physics and astronomy, and the Swiss psychologist Carl Jung (1875-1961), who founded analytical psychology. It was imported to America in the 19th century by German immigrants.
Carles m Catalan
Catalan form of Charles.
Carlinhos m Portuguese
Portuguese diminutive of Carlos.
Carlito m Portuguese, Spanish (Rare)
Diminutive of Carlos.
Carlitos m Spanish, Portuguese
Diminutive of Carlos.
Carlman m Germanic
Old German variant of Carloman.
Carlo m Italian
Italian form of Charles.
Carloman m Germanic
From an Old German name derived from karl meaning "man" and man meaning "person, man". This was the name of several Frankish rulers, including the 8th-century Carloman I who ruled jointly with his brother Charlemagne for a time.
Carlos m Spanish, Portuguese
Spanish and Portuguese form of Charles.
Carlos Henrique m Portuguese
Combination of Carlos and Henrique.
Carlu m Corsican
Corsican form of Charles.
Carol 1 f & m English
Short form of Caroline. It was formerly a masculine name, derived from Carolus. The name can also be given in reference to the English vocabulary word, which means "song" or "hymn".
Carol 2 m Romanian
Romanian form of Carolus. This was the name of two Romanian kings.
Carolus m Germanic (Latinized)
Latin form of Charles.
Carrol m & f English
Variant of Carroll (masculine) or Carol 1 (feminine).
Charibert m Germanic
Old German (Frankish) variant of Haribert. This name was borne by two Merovingian kings of the Franks (6th and 7th centuries).
Charlemagne m History
From Old French Charles le Magne meaning "Charles the Great". This is the name by which the Frankish king Charles the Great (742-814) is commonly known.
Charles m English, French
French and English form of Carolus, the Latin form of the Germanic name Karl, which was derived from a word meaning "man" (Proto-Germanic *karlaz). However, an alternative theory states that it is derived from the common Germanic name element *harjaz meaning "army".... [more]
Charley m & f English
Diminutive or feminine form of Charles.
Charlie m & f English
Diminutive or feminine form of Charles. A famous bearer was the British comic actor Charlie Chaplin (1889-1977). It is also borne by Charlie Brown, the main character in the comic strip Peanuts by Charles Schulz.
Charlot m French
French diminutive of Charles.
Charly m & f English
Variant of Charlie.
Chas m English
Diminutive of Charles.
Chaz m English
Diminutive of Charles.
Childebert m Germanic
Old German (Frankish) form of Hildebert. This name was borne by four Merovingian Frankish kings (between the 6th and 8th centuries).
Childeric m Germanic
Old German (Frankish) variant of Hilderic.
Chilperic m Germanic
Old German (Frankish) variant of Hilperic.
Chip m English
Diminutive of Charles or Christopher. It can also be from a nickname given in reference to the phrase a chip off the old block, used of a son who is similar to his father.
Chlodochar m Germanic
Old German variant of Lothar.
Chlodomer m Germanic
Frankish name derived from the elements hlut "famous, loud" and mari "famous". This was the name of a 6th-century king of the Franks (a son of Clovis).
Chlodovech m Germanic (Latinized)
From Chlodovechus, a Latinized form of the Germanic name Hludwig (see Ludwig).
Chlodulf m Germanic
Old German form of Ludolf.
Chlothar m Germanic
Old German form of Lothar.
Chuck m English
Diminutive of Charles. It originated in America in the early 20th century. Two famous bearers of this name were pilot Chuck Yeager (1923-2020), the first man to travel faster than the speed of sound, and the musician Chuck Berry (1926-2017), one of the pioneers of rock music.
Chuckie m English
Diminutive of Chuck.
Chucky m English
Diminutive of Chuck.
Clodomiro m Spanish (Latin American)
Spanish form of Chlodomer.
Clodovicus m Germanic (Latinized)
Latinized form of the Germanic name Hludwig (see Ludwig).
Clotaire m French
French form of Lothar.
Clovis m History, French
Contemporary spelling, via the Latinized form Clodovicus, of the Germanic name Hludwig (see Ludwig). Clovis was a Frankish king who united the Franks under his rule in the 5th century. The name was subsequently borne by two further Merovingian kings.
Codie m & f English (Modern)
Variant or feminine form of Cody.
Cody m English
From an Irish surname, an Anglicized form of both Irish Gaelic Ó Cuidighthigh meaning "descendant of the helpful one" and Mac Óda meaning "son of Odo". A famous bearer of the surname was the American frontiersman and showman Buffalo Bill Cody (1846-1917).
Coen m Dutch
Short form of Coenraad.
Coenraad m Dutch
Dutch form of Conrad.
Colbert m English
From an English surname that was derived from a Norman form of the Old German name Colobert.
Colobert m Germanic
Old German name composed of (possibly) the element kollo meaning "head, peak" and beraht meaning "bright".
Connie f & m English
Diminutive of Constance and other names beginning with Con. It is occasionally a masculine name, a diminutive of Cornelius or Conrad.
Conrad m English, German, Germanic
Means "brave counsel", derived from the Old German elements kuoni "brave" and rat "counsel, advice". This was the name of a 10th-century saint and bishop of Konstanz, in southern Germany. It was also borne by several medieval German kings and dukes, notably Conrad II, the first of the Holy Roman Emperors from the Salic dynasty. In England it was occasionally used during the Middle Ages, but has only been common since the 19th century when it was reintroduced from Germany.
Conrado m Spanish
Spanish form of Conrad.
Consalvo m Italian (Rare)
Italian form of Gonzalo.
Cord m German
German contracted form of Conrad.
Corradino m Italian
Diminutive of Corrado.
Corrado m Italian
Italian form of Conrad. This was a 14th-century saint from Piacenza, Italy.
Coty m English (Modern)
Variant of Cody.
Curt m English
Either a variant of Kurt or short form of Curtis.
Dagobert m Germanic, German
Means "bright day", derived from Old Frankish dag or Old High German tag meaning "day" combined with Old Frankish berht or Old High German beraht meaning "bright". This was the name of a 7th-century Merovingian king of the Franks.... [more]
Dagoberto m Spanish
Spanish form of Dagobert.
Dederick m English (Archaic)
Older form of Derek.
Dedrick m African American
From an English surname that was derived from the given name Diederik.
Delbert m English
Short form of Adelbert. As an American name it was first used in the New York area by people of Dutch ancestry.
Dereck m English
Variant of Derek.
Derek m English
From the older English name Dederick, which was in origin a Low German form of Theodoric. It was imported to England from the Low Countries in the 15th century.
Derick m English
Variant of Derek.
Derrick m English
Variant of Derek.
Deryck m English (Rare)
Variant of Derek.
Detlef m Low German, German
Derived from Old High German diota, Old Saxon thiod meaning "people" and Old High German leiba, Old Saxon leva meaning "remainder, remnant, legacy".
Detlev m Low German, German
Variant of Detlef.
Dewitt m English
From the Dutch surname De Witt meaning "the white". It was common for Dutch immigrants to English-speaking countries to write their surnames as one word. It can be spelled Dewitt or with a capitalized third letter as DeWitt. A notable bearer was the American politician DeWitt Clinton (1769-1828).
Dick 1 m English
Medieval diminutive of Richard. The change in the initial consonant is said to have been caused by the way the trilled Norman R was pronounced by the English.
Dick 2 m Dutch
Short form of Diederik.
Dicun m Medieval English
Medieval diminutive of Dick 1.
Didi m German
Diminutive of Dieter.
Diede m & f Dutch
Short form of names beginning with the Old High German element diota (Old Frankish þeoda) meaning "people".
Diederich m German (Archaic)
German variant of Dietrich.
Diederick m Dutch (Rare)
Dutch variant of Diederik.
Diederik m Dutch
Dutch form of Theodoric.
Diedrich m German
German form of Theodoric.
Dierk m German
Variant of Dirk.
Dieter m German
Means "warrior of the people", derived from the Old German elements theod meaning "people" (Old High German diota, Old Frankish þeoda) and heri meaning "army". This name is also used as a short form of Dietrich.
Dietfried m German (Rare)
Means "peace of the people" from the Old German elements theod meaning "people" (Old High German diota, Old Frankish þeoda) and fridu meaning "peace".
Diethard m German
German form of Theodard.
Diethelm m German
Derived from the Old German elements theod meaning "people" (Old High German diota, Old Frankish þeoda) and helm meaning "helmet, protection".
Diether m German
Variant of Dieter.
Dietmar m German
German form of Theudemer.
Dietrich m German
German form of Theodoric. The character Dietrich von Bern, loosely based on Theodoric the Great, appears in medieval German literature such as the Hildebrandslied, the Nibelungenlied and the Eckenlied.
Dieuwe m Frisian
Frisian short form of Dieuwer or Dieuwert.
Dieuwer m & f Frisian
Frisian form of the Old German name Dietwar, a later form of Theodoar.
Dieuwert m Frisian
Frisian form of the Old German name Dietwart, a later form of Theodoard.
Dino m Italian, Croatian
Short form of names ending in dino or tino.
Dirk m Dutch, Low German, German, English
Dutch and Low German short form of Diederik. This name was borne by several counts of Frisia and Holland, beginning in the 10th century. It was popularized in the English-speaking world by actor Dirk Bogarde (1921-1999), who had some Dutch ancestry. This is also the Scots word for a type of dagger.
Dixon m English
From an English surname meaning "Dick 1's son".
Dölf m Limburgish
Limburgish short form of Adolf.
Dolph m English
Short form of Adolph.
Dulf m Limburgish
Limburgish short form of Adolf.
Durk m Frisian
Frisian form of Dirk.
Eanraig m Scottish Gaelic
Scottish Gaelic form of Henry.
Earnest m English
Variant of Ernest influenced by the spelling of the English word earnest.
Eberardo m Spanish (Rare)
Spanish form of Everard.
Eberhard m German, Germanic
Old German name meaning "brave boar", derived from the elements ebur "wild boar" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy". This name was borne by an influential 9th-century Duke of Friuli. It was also the name of a 12th-century German saint, an archbishop of Salzburg.
Eberwin m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements ebur "boar" and wini "friend".
Eckart m German
Variant of Ekkehard.
Eckbert m German (Rare)
German cognate of Egbert.
Eckehard m German
Variant of Ekkehard.
Eckhard m German
Variant of Ekkehard.
Eckhart m German
Variant of Ekkehard.
Edelmiro m Spanish
Spanish form of Adelmar.
Eef m & f Dutch
Short form of names beginning with Ev, such as Eva or Evert.
Egilhard m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements agil "edge, blade" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy". Usually called Eilhart, this was a medieval German poet who wrote an early version of the Tristan and Iseult tale.
Egilmar m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements agil "edge, blade" and mari "famous". Egilmar (or Elimar) was the name of two counts of Oldenburg in the 12th century.
Eike m & f Low German, German
Originally a short form of Ekkehard and other names beginning with the Old High German element ekka, Old Saxon eggia meaning "edge, blade". This name was borne by Eike of Repgow, who compiled the law book the Sachsenspiegel in the 13th century.
Eilert m Low German, Norwegian, Swedish
Low German and Scandinavian form of Egilhard.
Einrí m Irish
Irish form of Henry.
Ekkebert m Germanic
From the Old German elements ekka "edge, blade" and beraht "bright". This is a cognate of the English name Egbert.
Ekkehard m German, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements ekka "edge, blade" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy". Eckhart von Hochheim was a 13th-century Dominican friar, philosopher and mystic who was accused of heresy during the Inquisition.
Ekkehardt m German (Rare)
Variant of Ekkehard.
Elbert m Dutch
Dutch variant of Adelbert.
Ellanher m Germanic
Old German name composed of the elements ellan "courage" and heri "army".
Elmar m German
Modern German form of Adelmar or Egilmar.
Elmārs m Latvian
Latvian form of Elmar.
Elmo m Italian, English, Finnish, Estonian
Originally a short form of names ending with the Old German element helm meaning "helmet, protection", such as Guglielmo or Anselmo. It is also a derivative of Erasmus, via the old Italian short form Ermo. Saint Elmo, also known as Saint Erasmus, was a 4th-century martyr who is the patron of sailors. Saint Elmo's fire is said to be a sign of his protection.... [more]
Elvis m English
Meaning unknown. It could possibly be a derivative of Alvis or Elwin. More likely, it is from the rare surname Elvis, a variant of Elwes, which is ultimately derived from the given name Eloise. The name was brought to public attention by the singer Elvis Presley (1935-1977), whose name came from his father's middle name.... [more]
Émeric m French
French form of Emmerich.
Emerson m & f English, Portuguese (Brazilian)
From an English surname meaning "son of Emery". The surname was borne by Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-1882), an American writer and philosopher who wrote about transcendentalism.
Emery m & f English
Norman French form of Emmerich. The Normans introduced it to England, and though it was never popular, it survived until the end of the Middle Ages. As a modern given name, now typically feminine, it is likely inspired by the surname Emery, which was itself derived from the medieval given name. It can also be given in reference to the hard black substance called emery.
Emmerich m German, Germanic
Germanic name, in which the second element is rih "ruler, king". The first element may be irmin "whole, great" (making it a relative of Ermenrich), amal "unceasing, vigorous, brave" (making it a relative of Amalric) or heim "home" (making it a relative of Henry). It is likely that several forms merged into a single name.
Emmerson m & f English (Rare)
Variant of Emerson.
Emmet m English
Variant of Emmett. It is used in Ireland in honour of the nationalist and rebel Robert Emmet (1778-1803).
Emmett m English
From an English surname that was derived from a diminutive of the feminine given name Emma.
Emmitt m English
Variant of Emmett. The American football player Emmitt Smith (1969-) is a famous bearer.
Emory m & f English
Variant of Emery.
Emrik m Swedish, Norwegian
Swedish and Norwegian form of Emmerich.
Endel m Estonian
Masculine form of Endla.
Endika m Basque
Basque form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Engel m & f Germanic, German (Rare)
Originally this may have been a short form of Germanic names beginning with the element angil, referring to the Germanic tribe known in English as the Angles. However, from early times it has been strongly associated with the Old German word engil meaning "angel" (of Latin and Greek origin).
Engelbert m German, Germanic
Old German name composed of either the element angil, from the name of the Germanic tribe of the Angles, or engil meaning "angel" combined with beraht meaning "bright". Saint Engelbert was a 13th-century archbishop of Cologne murdered by assassins.
Engilram m Germanic
Old German form of Ingram.
Enguerran m Medieval French
Old French form of Engilram (see Ingram). This was the name of several medieval French nobles from Picardy.
Enn m Estonian
Estonian short form of Hendrik.
Enric m Catalan
Catalan form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Enrico m Italian
Italian form of Heinrich (see Henry). Enrico Fermi (1901-1954) was an Italian physicist who did work on the development of the nuclear bomb.
Enrique m Spanish
Spanish form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Enzo m Italian, French
The meaning of this name is uncertain. In some cases it seems to be an old Italian form of Heinz, though in other cases it could be a variant of the Germanic name Anzo. In modern times it is also used as a short form of names ending in enzo, such as Vincenzo or Lorenzo.... [more]
Ercanbald m Germanic
Old German form of Archibald.
Erdmann m German (Archaic)
Variant of Hartmann. It can also be interpreted as meaning "earth man" from German Erde "earth", and thus was sometimes used as a translation of Adam.
Erhard m German, Germanic
Derived from the Old German element era "honour, respect" combined with hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy". Saint Erhard was a 7th-century bishop of Regensburg in Bavaria.
Ermanno m Italian
Italian form of Herman.
Ern m English
Short form of Ernest.
Ernest m English, French, Catalan, Polish, Slovak, Slovene
Derived from Old High German ernust meaning "serious, earnest". It was introduced to England by the German House of Hanover when they inherited the British throne in the 18th century, though it did not become common until the following century. The American author and adventurer Ernest Hemingway (1899-1961) was a famous bearer of the name. It was also used by Oscar Wilde for a character in his comedy The Importance of Being Earnest (1895).
Ernestas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Ernest.
Ernesto m Italian, Spanish, Portuguese
Italian, Spanish and Portuguese form of Ernest.
Ernests m Latvian
Latvian form of Ernest.
Erni f & m German
Diminutive of Ernst, Ernestine and other names beginning with Ern.
Ernie m English
Diminutive of Ernest.
Erno m Finnish
Finnish form of Ernest.
Ernő m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Ernest.
Ernst m German, Dutch, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish
German, Dutch and Scandinavian form of Ernest.
Ernust m Germanic
Old German form of Ernest.
Erramun m Basque
Basque form of Raymond.
Ervin m Hungarian, Albanian, Croatian, Estonian
Hungarian, Albanian, Croatian and Estonian form of Erwin.
Ervīns m Latvian
Latvian form of Erwin.
Erwan m Breton
Breton form of Ivo 1 or Yves.
Erwann m Breton
Variant of Erwan.
Erwin m German, Dutch, Polish, Germanic
Derived from the Old German name Hariwini, composed of the elements heri "army" and wini "friend". It may have merged somewhat with the name Eberwin. A notable bearer was Erwin Schrödinger (1887-1961), an Austrian physicist who made contributions to quantum theory.
Eudes m Medieval French
Old French form of Odo.
Evald m Danish, Norwegian, Swedish, Estonian
Variant of Ewald.
Evaldas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Ewald.
Evaldo m Portuguese
Portuguese form of Ewald.
Ēvalds m Latvian
Latvian form of Ewald.
Everard m English (Rare)
From Everardus, the Latinized form of Eberhard. The Normans introduced it to England, where it joined the Old English cognate Eoforheard. It has only been rarely used since the Middle Ages. Modern use of the name may be inspired by the surname Everard, itself derived from the medieval name.
Everardo m Spanish
Spanish form of Everard.
Everett m English
From an English surname that was derived from the given name Everard.
Everette m English
Variant of Everett.
Everitt m English (Rare)
Variant of Everett.
Evert m Dutch, Swedish
Dutch and Swedish form of Everard.
Everts m Latvian
Latvian form of Evert.
Évrard m French
French form of Everard.
Ewald m German, Dutch, Germanic
From an Old German name that was composed of the elements ewa "law, custom" and walt "power, authority". This name was borne by two 7th-century saints from Northumbria who were martyred in Saxony.
Ewoud m Dutch
Dutch form of Ewald.
Ewout m Dutch
Dutch form of Ewald.
Falk m German
Means "falcon" in German.
Faramond m History
Variant of Faramund.
Faramund m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements fara "journey" and munt "protection". This was the name of a semi-legendary 5th-century king of the Franks.
Faro m Germanic
Originally a short form of Germanic names containing the element fara meaning "journey" (Proto-Germanic *farō). This was the name of a 7th-century Burgundian bishop of Meaux, France.
Faroald m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements fara "journey" and walt "power, authority". This name was borne by the first Duke of Spoleto, a 6th-century Lombard.
Faron m French (Archaic), English
French form of Faro. As an English name, it is probably from a French surname that was derived from the given name.
Fedde m Frisian
Originally a short form of names beginning with the Old German element fridu "peace".
Federico m Spanish, Italian
Spanish and Italian form of Frederick. Spanish poet Federico García Lorca (1898-1936) and Italian filmmaker Federico Fellini (1920-1993) are famous bearers of this name.
Federigo m Italian (Archaic)
Archaic Italian form of Frederick.
Femme m Frisian
Originally a Frisian short form of Fridumar or Friduman (and other names starting with the Old German element fridu "peace" and a second element beginning with m).
Fiete m German
Diminutive of Friedrich.
Filbert m Eastern African
Possibly a form of Philibert. It is particularly used in Tanzania due to track star Filbert Bayi (1953-), who set a world record running the 1500 meter in 1974.
Filibert m Germanic
Means "much brightness" from the Old German elements filu "much" and beraht "bright". This was the name of a 7th-century Frankish saint, commonly called Philibert.
Filiberto m Italian, Spanish
Italian and Spanish form of Filibert.
Fito m Spanish
Diminutive of Adolfo or Rodolfo.
Fitzwilliam m Literature
From an English surname meaning "son of William", formed using the Anglo-Norman French prefix fitz-, derived from Latin filius "son". This is the given name of Mr. Darcy, a character in Jane Austen's novel Pride and Prejudice (1813).
Florimond m Literature, French
Possibly from Latin florens meaning "prosperous, flourishing" combined with the Old German element munt meaning "protection". This is the name of the prince in some versions of the fairy tale Sleeping Beauty.
Folcmar m Germanic
Old German form of Volkmar.
Foster 2 m English
English form of Vaast, referring to Saint Vedastus.
Franck m French
French form of Frank.
Franco m Italian
Italian form of Frank, also used as a short form of the related name Francesco.
Frank m English, German, Dutch, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, French
From an Old German name that referred to a member of the Germanic tribe, the Franks. The Franks settled in the regions now called France, Belgium and the Netherlands in the 3rd and 4th century. They possibly derived their tribal name from a type of spear that they used, from Proto-Germanic *frankô. From medieval times, the various forms of this name have been commonly conflated with the various forms of Francis. In modern times it is sometimes used as a short form of Francis or Franklin.... [more]
Frankenstein m Popular Culture
From the surname Frankenstein, used by Mary Shelley in her 1818 novel of the same name for the scientist Victor Frankenstein. The monster that Frankenstein created, which has no name in the novel, is sometimes called Frankenstein in modern speech, as if it were his given name.
Frankie m & f English
Diminutive of Frank or Frances.
Franko m Croatian, Germanic
Croatian form of Franco, as well as the Old German form.
Fred m English, Dutch, German, French, Portuguese, Swedish, Norwegian
Short form of Frederick and other names containing the same element. A famous bearer was the American actor and dancer Fred Astaire (1899-1987). It was also borne by the cartoon caveman Fred Flintstone on the television series The Flintstones (1960-1966).
Freddie m & f English
Diminutive of Frederick or Freda. A noteworthy bearer was the musician Freddie Mercury (1946-1991), born Farrokh Bulsara, the lead vocalist of the British rock band Queen.
Freddy m English, French, Dutch
Diminutive of Frederick and other names containing the same element. A notable fictional bearer is the horror villain Freddy Krueger from the A Nightmare on Elm Street series of movies, beginning 1984.
Frédéric m French
French form of Frederick. A famous bearer was the Polish composer Fryderyk or Frédéric Chopin (1810-1849).
Frederic m Catalan, Occitan
Catalan and Occitan form of Frederik. A notable bearer was the French/Occitan writer Frederic Mistral (1830-1914), whose name was written Frédéric in French.
Frederick m English
English form of an Old German name meaning "peaceful ruler", derived from fridu "peace" and rih "ruler, king". This name has long been common in continental Germanic-speaking regions, being borne by rulers of the Holy Roman Empire, Germany, Austria, Scandinavia, and Prussia. Notables among these rulers include the 12th-century Holy Roman emperor and crusader Frederick I Barbarossa, the 13th-century emperor and patron of the arts Frederick II, and the 18th-century Frederick II of Prussia, known as Frederick the Great.... [more]
Frederico m Portuguese
Portuguese form of Frederick.
Frederik m Danish, Dutch, Low German
Danish, Dutch and Low German form of Frederick. This was the name of nine kings of Denmark over the past 500 years, alternating each generation with the name Christian.
Fredo m Italian (Rare)
Short form of Federico, Alfredo or Goffredo.
Fredric m English
Variant of Frederick.
Fredrick m English
Variant of Frederick.
Fredrik m Swedish, Norwegian, Finnish
Swedish and Norwegian form of Frederick. This was the name of an 18th-century king of Sweden.
Freek m Dutch
Dutch short form of Frederick.
Fricis m Latvian
Latvian form of Frederick.
Fridenot m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements fridu "peace" and not "need".
Friderik m Slovene
Slovene form of Frederick.
Fridolin m German, Germanic
Originally a diminutive of names containing the Old German element fridu meaning "peace". Saint Fridolin of Säckingen was a semi-legendary 6th-century missionary to southern Germany from Ireland.
Fridrich m Slovak
Slovak form of Friedrich.
Frīdrihs m Latvian
Latvian form of Frederick.
Fridubert m Germanic
Old German form of Friedbert.
Friduhelm m Germanic
Old German form of Friedhelm.
Friduman m Germanic
Old German form of Friedemann.
Fridumar m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements fridu "peace" and mari "famous".
Friduric m Germanic
Old German form of Frederick.
Fridwald m Germanic
Old German form of Friedhold.
Friedbert m German
Derived from the Old German elements fridu "peace" and beraht "bright".
Friedel m & f German
Diminutive of names containing the Old German element fridu meaning "peace".
Friedemann m German
Means "man of peace" from the Old German elements fridu "peace" and man "person, man".
Friedhelm m German
Derived from the Old German elements fridu "peace" and helm "helmet, protection".
Friedhold m German (Rare)
Means "peaceful power", derived from the Old German elements fridu "peace" and walt "power, authority".
Friedrich m German
German form of Frederick. This was the name of several rulers of the Holy Roman Empire, Austria and Prussia. The philosophers Friedrich Engels (1820-1895) and Friedrich Nietzsche (1844-1900) are two other famous bearers of this name.
Frigyes m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Frederick.
Friðrik m Icelandic
Icelandic form of Frederick.
Frits m Dutch
Dutch diminutive of Frederik.
Fritz m German
German diminutive of Friedrich.
Fryderyk m Polish
Polish form of Frederick. A famous bearer was the Polish composer Fryderyk Chopin (1810-1849), also known by the French form of his name Frédéric.
Fulbert m French, Germanic
From the Old German elements folk "people" and beraht "bright". Saint Fulbert was an 11th-century bishop of Chartres.
Fulchard m Germanic
Old German form of Volkhard.
Fulcher m Germanic
Old German form of Volker.
Fulco m Germanic
Old German form of Fulk.
Fulk m English (Archaic)
From the Germanic name Fulco, a short form of various names beginning with Old Frankish fulk or Old High German folk meaning "people" (Proto-Germanic *fulką). The Normans brought this name to England, though it is now very rare.
Fulke m English (Archaic)
Variant of Fulk.
Ganelon m Carolingian Cycle
French form of the Old German name Wenilo. In the medieval French epic La Chanson de Roland Ganelon is the knight who betrays Charlemagne's army to the Saracens, resulting in the death of Roland and the rest of the rear guard. He was based on Wenilo, a 9th-century archbishop of Sens who betrayed Charles the Bald (Charlemagne's grandson).
Garey m English
Variant of Gary.
Garibald m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements garo meaning "ready, prepared" and bald meaning "bold, brave". This name was borne by two rulers of Bavaria in the 6th and 7th centuries, as well as a king of the Lombards in the 7th century.
Garnet 2 m & f English
From an English surname that either referred to a person who made hinges (Old French carne) or was derived from the Norman name Guarin.
Garnett m & f English
Variant of Garnet 2.
Garnier m Medieval French
Medieval French form of Werner.
Garret m English
From a surname that was a variant of Garrett.
Garrett m English
From an English surname that was derived from the given name Gerald or Gerard. A famous bearer of the surname was Pat Garrett (1850-1908), the sheriff who shot Billy the Kid.
Garry m English
Variant of Gary. A famous bearer is the Russian chess player Garry Kasparov (1963-), whose name at birth was Garik.
Gary m English
From an English surname that was derived from a Norman given name, which was itself originally a short form of names beginning with the Old German element ger meaning "spear". This name was popularized in the late 1920s the American actor Gary Cooper (1901-1961), who took his stage name from the city of Gary in Indiana where his agent was born. It was especially popular in the 1940s and 50s, breaking into the American top ten in 1950, though it has since waned.
Gasto m Germanic
Old German form of Gaston.
Gastón m Spanish
Spanish form of Gaston.
Gaston m French
Possibly from a Germanic name derived from the element gast meaning "guest, stranger". This is the usual French name for Saint Vedastus, called Vaast in Flemish. The name was also borne by several counts of Foix-Béarn, beginning in the 13th century.
Gastone m Italian
Italian form of Gaston.
Gatis m Latvian
Short form of Gothards, now used independently.
Gaubert m French (Rare)
French form of Gautbert or Waldebert.
Gaufrid m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements gawi "territory, region" and fridu "peace".
Gaultier m French (Rare)
French variant form of Walter.
Gautbert m Germanic
Germanic name derived from the elements *gautaz "Geat" (a North Germanic tribe) and beraht "bright".
Gautfrid m Germanic
Germanic name derived from the elements *gautaz "Geat" (a North Germanic tribe) and fridu "peace".
Gauthier m French
French form of Walter.
Gautier m French
French form of Walter.
Gautselin m Germanic
Old German form of Jocelyn.
Gautwin m Germanic
Old German form of Goswin.
Gaz m English (British)
Diminutive of Gary or Gareth.
Gearalt m Irish (Rare)
Irish form of Gerald.
Gearóid m Irish
Irish form of Gerard or Gerald.
Gebahard m Germanic
Old German form of Gebhard.
Gebhard m German, Germanic
Derived from the Old German element geba "gift" combined with hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy". Saint Gebhard was a 10th-century bishop of Constance.
Geert m Dutch
Dutch form of Gerhard.
Geffrey m English (Rare)
Variant of Geoffrey.
Gellért m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Gerard. Saint Gellért was an 11th-century missionary to Hungary who was martyred by being thrown into the Danube.
Genrikh m Russian
Russian form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Geoff m English
Short form of Geoffrey.
Geoffrey m English, French
From a Norman French form of a Frankish name. The second element is Old German fridu "peace", while the first element could be *gautaz "Geat" (a North Germanic tribe), gawi "territory" or walah "foreigner". It is possible that two or more names merged into a single form. In the later Middle Ages Geoffrey was further confused with the distinct name Godfrey.... [more]
Geoffroi m Medieval French
Medieval French form of Geoffrey.
Geoffroy m French
French form of Geoffrey.
Ger m Dutch, Irish
Short form Gerard, Gerrit, Gearóid and other names beginning with Ger.
Gérald m French
French form of Gerald.
Gerald m English, German, Dutch
From a Germanic name meaning "power of the spear", from the elements ger meaning "spear" and walt meaning "power, authority". The Normans brought it to Britain. Though it died out in England during the Middle Ages, it remained common in Ireland. It was revived in the English-speaking world in 19th century.... [more]
Geraldo m Portuguese, Spanish, Italian (Rare)
Portuguese, Spanish and Italian form of Gerald.
Gerallt m Welsh
Welsh form of Gerald.
Gérard m French
French form of Gerard.
Gerard m English, Dutch, Catalan, Polish
Derived from the Old German element ger meaning "spear" combined with hart meaning "hard, firm, brave, hardy". This name was borne by saints from Belgium, Germany, Hungary and Italy. The Normans introduced it to Britain. It was initially much more common there than the similar name Gerald, with which it was often confused, but it is now less common.
Gerardo m Italian, Spanish
Italian and Spanish form of Gerard.
Géraud m French
French form of Gerald.
Gerbald m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements ger meaning "spear" and bald meaning "bold, brave". This was the name of a 7th-century Frankish saint, a bishop of Bayeux (also called Gerbold).
Gerben m Dutch
Derived from the Germanic elements ger meaning "spear" and bern meaning "bear".
Gerbern m Germanic
Old German form of Gerben.
Gerbold m Germanic
Variant of Gerbald.
Gerd 1 m German, Dutch
Short form of Gerhard.
Gerfrid m Germanic
Old German form of Gerfried.
Gerfried m German (Rare)
Derived from the Old German elements ger "spear" and fridu "peace".
Gerhard m German, Dutch, Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Germanic
German, Dutch and Scandinavian form of Gerard. This name was borne by the former German chancellor Gerhard Schröder (1944-).
Gerhardt m German
German variant form of Gerard.
Gerhart m German
German variant form of Gerard. A famous bearer was the German writer Gerhart Hauptmann (1862-1946).
Gerhold m German (Rare)
German variant form of Gerald.
Gerlach m Dutch (Rare), Germanic
Derived from the Old German element ger "spear" combined with (possibly) lahhi "doctor, healer". Saint Gerlach was a 12th-century Dutch soldier who became a hermit.
Gerlof m Dutch
Dutch form of Gerulf.
German m Russian
Russian form of Germanus (or sometimes of Herman).
Germund m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements ger "spear" and munt "protection".
Gernot m German, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements ger "spear" and not "need". It is used in the medieval German saga the Nibelungenlied for one of the brothers of Gunther.
Gero m German, Germanic
Originally a short form of Germanic names beginning with Old Frankish gair or Old High German ger meaning "spear" (Proto-Germanic *gaizaz).
Geroald m Germanic
Old German form of Gerald.
Gerold m German, Germanic
German form of Gerald.
Gerolf m German (Rare)
German form of Gerulf.
Gerolt m Dutch (Rare)
Dutch form of Gerald.
Gerrard m English (Rare)
Variant of Gerard.
Gerrit m Dutch, Frisian
Dutch and Frisian form of Gerard.
Gerry m & f English, Dutch
Diminutive of Gerald, Gerard or Geraldine.
Gert m German, Dutch, Danish, Swedish
German, Dutch, Danish and Swedish short form of Gerhard.
Gert-Jan m Dutch
Combination of Gert and Jan 1.
Gerulf m Germanic
Derived from Old German ger meaning "spear" and wolf meaning "wolf". This was the name of an 8th-century saint and martyr from Drongen, Belgium.
Gervais m French
French form of Gervasius.
Gervase m English (Rare)
English form of Gervasius. The Normans introduced this name to England in the Middle Ages, though it has since become rare.
Gervásio m Portuguese
Portuguese form of Gervasius.
Gervasio m Italian, Spanish
Italian and Spanish form of Gervasius.
Gervasius m Germanic (Latinized)
Possibly a Latinized form of a Germanic name with a first element deriving from ger "spear". The second element is uncertain, though some propose it to be Gaulish *wassos "servant". Alternatively the name could be related to the Greek word γεραιός (geraios) "old".... [more]
Gerwas m Germanic (Hypothetical)
Old German form (possibly) of Gervasius.
Gerwazy m Polish (Rare)
Polish form of Gervasius.
Gherardo m Italian (Archaic)
Italian variant of Gerardo.
Ghislain m French
French form of Gislenus, a Latinized form of the Germanic name Gislin, derived from the element gisal meaning "hostage" or "pledge". This was the name of a 7th-century saint and hermit who built a chapel near Mons, Belgium.
Ghyslain m French (Rare)
Variant of Ghislain.
Giancarlo m Italian
Combination of Gianni and Carlo.
Gianluigi m Italian
Combination of Gianni and Luigi.
Gib m English
Medieval diminutive of Gilbert.
Gibson m English (Modern)
From an English surname meaning "son of Gib".
Giffard m English (Rare)
From the English and French surname Giffard. Walter Giffard was one of the Norman companions of William the Conqueror.
Gigi f & m French, Italian, Romanian, Georgian
Diminutive of names containing the letters or sound gi, such as French Georgine or Virginie, Italian Luigi, Romanian George and Georgian Giorgi.
Gijs m Dutch
Short form of Gijsbert.
Gijsbert m Dutch
Dutch form of Gisbert.
Gil 2 m English
Short form of Gilbert and other names beginning with Gil.
Gilbert m English, French, Dutch, Germanic
Means "bright pledge", derived from the Old German elements gisal "pledge, hostage" and beraht "bright". The Normans introduced this name to England, where it was common during the Middle Ages. It was borne by a 12th-century English saint, the founder of the religious order known as the Gilbertines.
Gilberto m Italian, Spanish, Portuguese
Italian, Spanish and Portuguese form of Gilbert.
Gilmar m Portuguese (Brazilian)
In the case of the Brazilian soccer goalkeeper Gylmar dos Santos Neves (1930-2013), commonly known simply as Gilmar, it was a blend of his parents' names Gilberto and Maria.
Giltbert m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements gelt "payment, tribute, compensation" and beraht "bright".
Gino m Italian
Italian short form of names ending in gino.
Giraldo m Italian (Rare), Spanish (Rare)
Italian and Spanish variant of Geraldo.
Ģirts m Latvian
Latvian form of Gerard.
Gisbert m German, Germanic
From a Germanic name in which the second element is beraht "bright". The first element is probably a shortened form of gisal "pledge, hostage" (making it a variant of Gilbert), though it could be related to Gaulish *gaisos "spear" (itself probably of Germanic origin).
Giselbert m Germanic
Old German form of Gilbert.
Giselher m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements gisal "hostage" and heri "army". This was the name of a 5th-century king of Burgundy.
Giselmund m Germanic
From the Old German elements gisal meaning "hostage, pledge" and munt meaning "protection".
Gisilbert m Germanic
Old German form of Gilbert.
Gisilfrid m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements gisal "hostage" and fridu "peace".
Gislenus m Germanic (Latinized)
Latinized form of Gislin (see Ghislain).
Gislin m Germanic
Old German form of Ghislain.
Gismund m Germanic
Germanic name, possibly a variant of Giselmund.
Goda 1 m & f Germanic
Germanic name derived from the element guot meaning "good" or got meaning "god".
Godabert m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements got "god" and beraht "bright". This was the name of a 7th-century king of the Lombards.
Goddard m English (Rare)
From an English and French surname that was derived from the Old German given name Godehard.
Godefrid m Germanic
Old German form of Godfrey.
Godefroy m French
French form of Godefrid (see Godfrey).
Godehard m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements got "god" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy". This was the name of an 11th-century saint who was a bishop of Hildesheim.
Godescalc m Germanic
Old German form of Gottschalk.
Godfrey m English
From the Germanic name Godefrid, which meant "peace of god" from the Old German elements got "god" and fridu "peace". The Normans brought this name to England, where it became common during the Middle Ages. A notable bearer was Godfrey of Bouillon, an 11th-century leader of the First Crusade and the first ruler of the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem.
Godfried m Dutch
Dutch cognate of Godefrid (see Godfrey).
Godofredo m Spanish, Portuguese (Rare)
Spanish and Portuguese form of Godfrey.
Godtfred m Norwegian
Norwegian form of Godfrey.
Goffredo m Italian
Italian form of Godfrey.
Gonçal m Catalan (Rare)
Catalan form of Gonzalo.
Gonçalo m Portuguese
Portuguese form of Gonzalo.
Gontran m French
French form of Guntram.
Gonzalo m Spanish
From the medieval name Gundisalvus, which was the Latin form of a Germanic (possibly Visigothic or Suebi) name composed of gunda "war" and maybe salba "salve, ointment", salo "dark, dusky" or sal "house, hall" (with the spelling perhaps influenced by Latin salvus "safe"). Saint Gonzalo was an 11th-century bishop of Mondoñedo in Galicia, Spain.
Goraidh m Scottish Gaelic
Scottish Gaelic form of Godfrey.
Gosse m Medieval French
Old French form of Gozzo.
Goswin m Dutch (Archaic)
From the Germanic name Gautwin, derived from the elements *gautaz "Geat" (a North Germanic tribe) and wini "friend".
Goteleib m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements got "god" and liob "dear, beloved". This is a German translation of Theophilus.
Gothards m Latvian (Rare)
Latvian form of Gotthard.
Gottfrid m Swedish
Swedish form of Godfrey.
Gottfried m German
German form of Godfrey. This name was borne by the 13th-century German poet Gottfried von Strassburg and the German philosopher and mathematician Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz (1646-1716), one of the inventors of calculus.
Gotthard m German
German form of Godehard.
Gotthilf m German (Rare)
Derived from German Gott "God" and hilf "help". This name was created in the 17th century.
Gotthold m German (Rare)
Derived from German Gott "God" and hold "gracious, graceful, loyal". This name was created in the 17th century.
Gottlieb m German (Rare)
German form of Goteleib.
Gottlob m German (Rare)
Derived from German Gott "God" and lob "praise". This name was created in the 17th century.
Gottschalk m German (Archaic)
Derived from the Old German elements got "god" and scalc "servant". Saint Gottschalk was a (perhaps spurious) 11th-century prince of the Wends who was martyred by his brother-in-law.
Gozzo m Germanic
Originally a diminutive of names beginning with the Old German element goz, which was from the name of the Germanic tribe the Geats (Proto-Germanic *gautaz).
Granville m English
From an English surname that was derived from a Norman place name Grainville.
Graysen m English (Modern)
Variant of Grayson.
Grayson m English (Modern)
From an English surname meaning "son of the steward", derived from Middle English greyve "steward". It became common towards the end of the 20th century because of its similarity to popular names like Jason, Mason and Graham.
Grenville m English (Rare)
From a surname that was a variant of Granville.
Greyson m English (Modern)
Variant of Grayson.
Grimaldo m Spanish (Rare), Italian (Rare)
Spanish and Italian form of Grimwald.
Grimbald m Germanic
From the Old German elements grimo "mask" and bald "bold, brave".
Grimwald m Germanic
From the Old German elements grimo "mask" and walt "power, authority".
Gualberto m Italian (Rare), Portuguese (Rare), Spanish (Latin American)
Italian, Portuguese and Spanish form of Waldebert.
Guálter m Portuguese
Portuguese form of Walter.
Gualterio m Spanish (Rare)
Spanish form of Walter.
Gualtiero m Italian
Italian form of Walter.
Guarin m Medieval French
Norman French form of Warin.
Guerino m Italian
Italian form of Warin.
Guglielmo m Italian
Italian form of William.
Gui m Portuguese
Short form of Guilherme.
Guido m Italian, German
Latinized form of Wido. Notable bearers include the music theorist Guido d'Arezzo (c. 991-1033), poet Guido Cavalcanti (c. 1250-1300), and Baroque painter Guido Reni (1575-1642).
Guifré m Catalan (Rare)
Catalan form of Vilifredus, a Latinized form of Willifrid (or perhaps a Visigothic cognate). This was the name of a 9th-century count of Barcelona.
Guilherme m Portuguese
Portuguese form of William.
Guillaume m French
French form of William.
Guillem m Catalan
Catalan form of William.
Guillerme m Galician
Galician form of William.
Guillermo m Spanish
Spanish form of William.
Guim m Catalan
Short form of Guillem.
Guiomar f & m Portuguese, Spanish, Arthurian Cycle
Possibly derived from the Germanic name Wigmar, which was formed of the elements wig "war, battle" and mari "famous". In the medieval Lancelot-Grail Cycle he plays a minor role as a cousin of Guinevere, who banishes him after he becomes a lover of Morgan le Fey. In modern Portugal and Spain it is a feminine name.
Guiscard m Medieval French
Norman French form of the Norman name Wischard, from Old Norse vizkr "wise" and the Old French pejorative suffix -ard (from Old Frankish hard "hard, firm, brave, hardy"). This was the byname of Robert Guiscard, an 11th-century Norman conqueror of Sicily.
Gumarich m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements gomo meaning "man" and rih meaning "ruler, king".
Gundahar m Germanic, Germanic Mythology
Old German form of Gunther.
Gundhram m Germanic
Old German form of Guntram.
Gundisalvus m Germanic (Latinized)
Old German (Latinized) form of Gonzalo.
Guntars m Latvian
Latvian form of Gunther.
Günter m German
Variant of Gunther.
Gunter m German
Variant of Gunther.
Günther m German
Variant of Gunther. It was especially popular in Germany in the 1920s and 30s.
Gunther m German, Germanic Mythology
From the Old German name Gundahar, derived from the elements gunda "war" and heri "army" (making it a cognate of Gunnar). This was the name of a semi-legendary 5th-century Burgundian king. He appears in the medieval German saga the Nibelungenlied, which has him wooing the Icelandic queen Brunhild. He wins her hand in marriage with the help of the hero Siegfried. He ultimately betrays Siegfried, but Siegfried's widow Kriemhild (Gunther's sister) takes her revenge upon him.... [more]
Guntram m German
Means "war raven" from the Old German elements gunda "war" and hram "raven". This was the name of a 6th-century Frankish king, sometimes called Gontrand, who is considered a saint.
Gutierre m Spanish (Archaic)
Spanish form of Walter.
Guy 1 m English, French
Old French form of Wido. The Normans introduced it to England, where it was common until the time of Guy Fawkes (1570-1606), a revolutionary who attempted to blow up the British parliament. The name was revived in the 19th century, due in part to characters in the novels Guy Mannering (1815) by Walter Scott and The Heir of Redclyffe (1854) by C. M. Yonge.
Gvidas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Wido.
Gwallter m Welsh
Welsh form of Walter.
Gwil m Welsh
Welsh short form of Gwilym.
Gwilherm m Breton
Breton form of William.
Gwilim m Welsh
Welsh variant of Gwilym.
Gwillym m Welsh
Welsh variant of Gwilym.
Gwilym m Welsh
Welsh form of William.
Hadubert m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements hadu "battle" and beraht "bright".
Hagano m Germanic, Germanic Mythology
Old German form of Hagen.
Hagen m German, Germanic Mythology
Derived from the Old German element hag meaning "enclosure" (Proto-Germanic *hagô). In the medieval German saga the Nibelungenlied he is the cunning half-brother of Gunther. He killed the hero Siegfried by luring him onto a hunting expedition and then stabbing him with a javelin in his one vulnerable spot.
Haimo m Germanic
Short form of Germanic names beginning with Old Frankish haim or Old High German heim meaning "home" (Proto-Germanic *haimaz).
Hal m English
Medieval diminutive of Harry. In Shakespeare's two historical plays about Henry IV, Prince Hal is the name of the future King Henry V.
Hammond m English (Rare)
From an English surname that was derived from either the Norman given name Hamo or the Old Norse given name Hámundr.
Hamnet m English (Archaic)
Diminutive of Hamo. This was the name of a son of Shakespeare who died in childhood. His death may have provided the inspiration for his father's play Hamlet.
Hamo m Medieval English
Norman form of Haimo. The Normans brought this name to Britain.
Hamon m Medieval English
Variant of Hamo.
Hank m English
Originally a short form of Hankin, which was a medieval diminutive of John. Since the 17th century in the United States this name has also been used as a diminutive of Henry, probably under the influence of the Dutch diminutive Henk. A famous bearer is the American former baseball player Hank Aaron (1934-2021).
Hans-Günter m German
Combination of Hans and Günter.
Hans-Günther m German
Combination of Hans and Günther.
Harald m Norwegian, Danish, Swedish, German
Scandinavian and German cognate of Harold, from the Old Norse elements herr and valdr and the Old German elements heri and walt. This was the name of several kings of Norway and Denmark.
Haralds m Latvian
Latvian form of Harold.
Hardman m Germanic
Old German form of Hartmann.
Hardmod m Germanic
Old German form of Hartmut.
Hardwic m Germanic
Old German variant of Hartwig.
Hardwin m Germanic
Old German form of Hartwin.
Hardy 1 m English
From a surname that was derived from Middle English hardi "bold, hardy".
Hardy 2 m German
Diminutive of names containing the Old German element hart meaning "hard, firm, brave, hardy".
Haribert m Germanic
Old German form of Herbert.
Harijs m Latvian
Latvian form of Harry.
Hariman m Germanic
Old German form of Herman.
Hariwald m Germanic
Old German form of Harold.
Hariwini m Germanic
Old German form of Erwin.
Harm m Dutch
Dutch short form of Harmen.
Harmen m Dutch
Dutch variant of Herman.
Harmon m English
From a surname that was derived from the given name Herman.
Harri m Finnish, Estonian, Welsh
Finnish, Estonian and Welsh form of Harry.
Harris m English
From an English surname that was derived from the given name Harry.
Harrison m English
From an English surname that meant "son of Harry". This was the surname of two American presidents, William Henry Harrison (1773-1841) and his grandson Benjamin Harrison (1833-1901). As a given name it reached a low point in America in 1977 before it was revived by the career of actor Harrison Ford (1942-), who starred in such movies as Star Wars in 1977 and Indiana Jones in 1984.
Harry m English, Dutch, Swedish, German
Medieval English form of Henry. In modern times it is used as a diminutive of both Henry and names beginning with Har. Famous bearers include the American president Harry S. Truman (1884-1972), who was named after his uncle Harrison, and the British royal Prince Harry (1984-), who is actually named Henry. It is also the name of the boy wizard in J. K. Rowling's Harry Potter series of books, first released in 1997.
Hartmann m German (Rare)
Means "brave man", derived from the Old German element hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy" combined with man.
Hartmut m German, Germanic
Means "brave mind", derived from the Old German elements hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy" and muot "mind, spirit". This is the kidnapper of Gudrun in the medieval German epic Kudrun.
Hartwig m German, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy" and wig "battle".
Hartwin m German (Rare), Germanic
Means "brave friend" from the Old German elements hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy" and wini "friend".
Hasso m German, Germanic
Germanic name, possibly referring to a member of the Germanic tribe of the Hessians, called the Chatti in antiquity.
Hauke m Frisian, German
Frisian short form of Old German given names containing the element hugu meaning "mind, thought, spirit".
Heidrich m Germanic
Derived from the Old German element (possibly) heida "heath, heather" combined with rih "ruler, king".
Heike f & m Low German, German
Low German diminutive of Henrike or Henrik.
Heiki m Estonian
Estonian form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Heikki m Finnish
Finnish form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Heiko m Low German, German, Frisian
Low German and Frisian diminutive of Henrik.
Heilfrid m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements heil "healthy, whole" and fridu "peace".
Heimirich m Germanic
Old German form of Henry.
Hein 1 m Dutch
Short form of Hendrik.
Heiner m German
Diminutive of Heinrich.
Heino m German, Finnish, Estonian
German form of Haimo (see Hamo).
Heinrich m German, Germanic
German form of Henry. This was the name of several German kings.
Heintje f & m Dutch
Feminine and masculine diminutive of Hendrik.
Heinz m German
Diminutive of Heinrich.
Helfried m German
Modern German form of Heilfrid, also a variant of Helmfried.
Helmfrid m Germanic
Old German form of Helmfried.
Helmfried m German (Rare)
Derived from the Old German elements helm "helmet" and fridu "peace".
Helmo m Germanic
Short form of Germanic names that began with the element helm meaning "helmet, protection" (Proto-Germanic *helmaz).
Helmold m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements helm "helmet" and walt "power, authority".
Helmut m German, Germanic
Derived from the Old German element helm "helmet" (or perhaps heil "healthy, whole") combined with muot "mind, spirit".
Helmuth m German
Variant of Helmut.
Hēnare m Maori
Maori form of Henry.
Henderson m English
From a Scottish surname meaning "son of Henry".
Hendrick m Dutch (Archaic)
Dutch variant of Hendrik.
Hendricus m Dutch
Variant of Henricus.
Hendrik m Dutch, German, Estonian
Dutch and Estonian cognate of Heinrich (see Henry).
Hendrikus m Dutch
Variant of Henricus.
Hendrix m English (Modern)
From a Dutch surname that was derived from the given name Hendrik. A famous bearer of the surname was the American rock musician Jimi Hendrix (1942-1970).
Hendry m Scots
Scots form of Henry.
Henk m Dutch
Dutch short form of Hendrik.
Hennie m & f Dutch
Dutch diminutive and feminine form of Hendrik.
Henning m German, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish
Diminutive of Henrik.
Henny f & m Dutch, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish
Diminutive of Henriette, Hendrika and other names containing hen. In Dutch it can also be masculine as a diminutive of Hendrik.
Henri m French, Finnish
French form of Heinrich (see Henry). A notable bearer was the French artist Henri Matisse (1869-1954).
Henrich m Slovak
Slovak form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Henricus m Germanic (Latinized), Dutch
Latinized form of Heinrich. As a Dutch name, it is used on birth certificates though a vernacular form such as Hendrik is typically used in daily life.
Henrijs m Latvian
Latvian form of Henry.
Henrik m Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Low German, German, Hungarian, Slovene, Croatian, Armenian
Form of Heinrich (see Henry) in several languages. A famous bearer was the Norwegian playwright Henrik Ibsen (1828-1906).
Henrikas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Henrikki m Finnish
Finnish form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Henrique m Portuguese
Portuguese form of Heinrich (see Henry). This was the name of a 15th-century Portuguese naval explorer (known as Henry the Navigator in English).
Henry m English
From the Germanic name Heimirich meaning "home ruler", composed of the elements heim "home" and rih "ruler". It was later commonly spelled Heinrich, with the spelling altered due to the influence of other Germanic names like Haganrich, in which the first element is hag "enclosure".... [more]
Henryk m Polish
Polish form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Herb m English
Short form of Herbert.
Herbert m English, German, Dutch, Czech, Swedish, French
Derived from the Old German elements heri "army" and beraht "bright". It was borne by two Merovingian Frankish kings, usually called Charibert. The Normans introduced this name to England, where it replaced an Old English cognate Herebeorht. In the course of the Middle Ages it became rare, but it was revived in the 19th century.... [more]
Herberto m Spanish (Rare), Portuguese (Rare)
Spanish and Portuguese form of Herbert.
Herbie m English
Diminutive of Herbert.
Heribert m German
German form of Herbert.
Heriberto m Spanish, Portuguese (Rare)
Spanish and Portuguese form of Herbert.
Herkus m Lithuanian
Short form of Henrikas.
Heřman m Czech
Czech form of Herman.
Herman m English, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Slovene, Germanic
Means "army man", derived from the Old German elements heri "army" and man "person, man". It was introduced to England by the Normans, died out, and was revived in the English-speaking world in the 19th century. It was borne by an 18th-century Russian missionary to Alaska who is venerated as a saint in the Orthodox Church, though in his case the name is an alternate transcription of German. Another famous bearer was the American writer Herman Melville (1819-1891), the author of Moby-Dick.
Hermann m German
German form of Herman. A famous bearer was the German author Hermann Hesse (1877-1962).
Hermanni m Finnish
Finnish form of Herman.
Hermannus m Dutch, Germanic (Latinized)
Variant of Hermanus.
Hermanus m Germanic (Latinized), Dutch
Latinized form of Herman. As a Dutch name, it is used on birth certificates, with the form Herman typically used in daily life.
Herry m Medieval English
Medieval English form of Henry. Unlike Harry, this form is no longer used.
Herschel m American, Yiddish
Variant of Hershel.
Hersh m Yiddish
Alternate transcription of Yiddish הירש (see Hirsh).
Hershel m American, Yiddish
Yiddish diminutive of Hirsh. As a non-Jewish American name (somewhat common around the end of the 19th century), it was likely inspired by the German surname Herschel, borne for instance by the British-German astronomer William Herschel (1738-1822).
Herwig m German, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements heri "army" and wig "war, battle".
Hewie m English (Rare)
Variant of Hughie.
Hidde m Frisian
Originally a short form of names beginning with the Old German element hilt meaning "battle".
Hilbert m Dutch, German (Rare)
Variant of Hildebert.
Hildebert m German (Rare)
Means "bright battle" from the Old German elements hilt "battle" and beraht "bright". This name was borne by four early Frankish kings, usually called Childebert.
Hildebrand m German (Archaic), Germanic
Means "battle sword", derived from the Old German element hilt "battle" combined with brant "fire, torch, sword". This was the name of the hero of an 8th-century poem written in Old High German.
Hilderic m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements hilt "battle" and rih "ruler, king". Hilderic was a 6th-century king of the Vandals. This name was also borne by three early Merovingian Frankish kings, though their name is usually spelled as Childeric.
Hildiberht m Germanic
Old German form of Hildebert.
Hildimar m Germanic
Old German form of Hilmar.
Hilmar m German, Icelandic, Norwegian, Danish
From the Old German name Hildimar, derived from the elements hilt "battle" and mari "famous".
Hilperic m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements helfa "help" and rih "ruler, king". This name was borne by two Burgundian kings and two Frankish kings (usually called Chilperic).
Hinnerk m Low German
Low German form of Heinrich.
Hinrich m Low German
Low German form of Heinrich.
Hinrik m Icelandic
Icelandic form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Hirsh m Yiddish
Means "deer" in Yiddish, from Old High German hiruz. This was a vernacular form of the Hebrew name Tzvi. The deer is particularly associated with the tribe of Naphtali (see Genesis 49:21).
Hirshel m Yiddish
Yiddish diminutive of Hirsh.
Hlothar m Germanic
Old German form of Lothar.
Hludolf m Germanic
Old German form of Ludolf.
Hlūdwīg m Frankish (Hypothetical)
Frankish form (possibly) of Ludwig.
Hludwig m Germanic
Old German form of Ludwig.
Hob m Medieval English
Medieval short form of Robert.
Hobson m English (Rare)
From the English surname Hobson meaning "son of Hob".
Hoebaer m Limburgish
Limburgish form of Hubert. Its spelling has been influenced by the French pronunciation of Hubert.
Hopcyn m Medieval Welsh
Medieval Welsh diminutive of Hob.
Hopkin m Medieval English
Medieval diminutive of Hob.
Horst m German
Means "wood, thicket" in Low German. Alternatively, it may derive from Horsa. This name was popular in the first half of the 20th century but has since become uncommon. It is now a German slang word for an unintelligent person.
Houston m English
From a Scottish surname meaning "Hugh's town". The original Houston is in Scotland near Glasgow, but this is also the name of a city in Texas, named after the Texas president Sam Houston (1793-1863).
Howard m English
From an English surname that can derive from several different sources: the Anglo-Norman given name Huard, which was from the Germanic name Hughard; the Anglo-Scandinavian given name Haward, from the Old Norse name Hávarðr; or the Middle English term ewehirde meaning "ewe herder". This is the surname of a British noble family, members of which have held the title Duke of Norfolk from the 15th century to the present. A famous bearer of the given name was the American industrialist Howard Hughes (1905-1976).
Howie m English
Diminutive of Howard.
Hraban m Germanic
From an Old German byname derived from hraban meaning "raven".
Hrambert m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements hram "raven" and beraht "bright".
Hrodebert m Germanic
Old German form of Robert.
Hroderich m Germanic
Old German form of Roderick.
Hrodger m Germanic
Old German form of Roger.
Hrodland m Germanic
Old German form of Roland.
Hrodperht m Germanic
Variant of Hrodebert.
Hrodulf m Germanic
Old German form of Rudolf.
Hrolf m Germanic
Contracted form of Hrodulf.
Hruodnand m Germanic
From the Old German elements hruod meaning "fame" and nand meaning "brave". According to some theories, this was the original form of Roland.
Hubert m English, German, Dutch, French, Polish, Czech, Germanic
Means "bright heart", derived from the Old German elements hugu "mind, thought, spirit" and beraht "bright". Saint Hubert was an 8th-century bishop of Maastricht who is considered the patron saint of hunters. The Normans brought the name to England, where it replaced an Old English cognate Hygebeorht. It died out during the Middle Ages but was revived in the 19th century.
Hubertus m German, Dutch, Germanic (Latinized)
Latinized form of Hubert.
Hubrecht m Dutch (Archaic)
Dutch variant of Hubert.
Hudde m Medieval English
Medieval diminutive of Hugh or possibly Richard.
Hudson m English
From an English surname meaning "son of Hudde". A famous bearer of the surname was the English explorer Henry Hudson (1570-1611).
Huey m English
Variant of Hughie.
Hug m Catalan (Rare)
Catalan form of Hugh.
Hugbald m Germanic
Old German form of Ubaldo.
Hugh m English
From the Germanic name Hugo, derived from Old Frankish hugi or Old High German hugu meaning "mind, thought, spirit" (Proto-Germanic *hugiz). It was common among Frankish and French nobility, being borne by Hugh Capet, a 10th-century king of France who founded the Capetian dynasty. The Normans brought the name to England and it became common there, even more so after the time of the 12th-century bishop Saint Hugh of Lincoln, who was known for his charity. This was also the name of kings of Cyprus and the crusader kingdom of Jerusalem. The name is used in Ireland and Scotland as the Anglicized form of Aodh and Ùisdean.
Hughard m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements hugu "mind, thought, spirit" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy".
Hughie m English
Diminutive of Hugh.
Hugo m Spanish, Portuguese, English, Dutch, German, French, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Latvian, Germanic
Old German form of Hugh. As a surname it has belonged to the French author Victor Hugo (1802-1885), the writer of The Hunchback of Notre-Dame and Les Misérables.
Hugubert m Germanic
Old German form of Hubert.
Hugues m French
French form of Hugh.
Huguo m Germanic
Old German variant of Hugo.
Hulderic m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements hold "favourable, gracious, graceful, loyal" and rih "ruler, king".
Humbert m French, German (Rare), English (Rare), Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements hun "bear cub" and beraht "bright". The Normans introduced this name to England, though it has always been uncommon there. It was the name of a 7th-century Frankish saint who founded Maroilles Abbey. It was also borne by two kings of Italy (called Umberto in Italian), who ruled in the 19th and 20th centuries. A notable fictional bearer is Humbert Humbert from Vladimir Nabokov's novel Lolita (1955).
Humberto m Spanish, Portuguese
Spanish and Portuguese form of Humbert.
Humphrey m English
From the Old German elements hun "bear cub" and fridu "peace". The Normans introduced this name to England, where it replaced the Old English cognate Hunfrith, and it was regularly used through the Middle Ages. A famous bearer was the American actor Humphrey Bogart (1899-1957), who starred in The Maltese Falcon and Casablanca.
Humphry m English (Rare)
Variant of Humphrey.
Hunberht m Germanic
Old German form of Humbert.
Hunfrid m Germanic
Old German form of Humphrey.
Huub m Dutch
Dutch short form of Hubert.
Huw m Welsh
Welsh form of Hugh.
Hynek m Czech
Diminutive of Heinrich.
IJsbrand m Dutch (Rare)
Derived from the Old German elements is "ice" and brant "fire, torch, sword".
Ilbert m Medieval English
Norman French form of Hildebert.
Illiam m Manx
Manx form of William.
Ime 2 m & f Frisian
Originally a short form of names beginning with the Old German element irmin meaning "whole, great".
Imre m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Emmerich. This was the name of an 11th-century Hungarian saint, the son of Saint Istvan. He is also known as Emeric.
Imrich m Slovak
Slovak form of Emmerich.
Indrek m Estonian
Estonian form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Indriķis m Latvian
Latvian form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Ingolf m Norwegian, Danish, German
From the Old Norse name Ingólfr, which was derived from the name of the Germanic god Ing combined with ulfr meaning "wolf".
Ingomar m German (Rare), Germanic
From the name of the Germanic god Ing combined with Old German mari "famous", making it a cognate of Ingemar. Ingomar (or Inguiomer) was a 1st-century leader of the Cherusci, a Germanic tribe.
Ingram m Germanic, English (Rare)
Germanic name composed of either the element angil, from the name of the Germanic tribe of the Angles, or engil meaning "angel" combined with hram meaning "raven". This name was brought to England by the Normans, though it died out after the medieval era. These days it is usually inspired by the surname that was derived from the medieval name.
Ingulf m Germanic
Old German cognate of Ingólfr.
Ints m Latvian
Contracted form of Indriķis.
Irnerius m History
Probably from Wernerius, a Latinized form of the Germanic name Werner. This was the name of a 12th-century Italian scholar and jurist. He sometimes wrote his name as Wernerius.
Isa 3 m Germanic
Short form of Germanic names beginning with the element is meaning "ice" (Proto-Germanic *īsą).
Isbrand m Germanic
Old German form of IJsbrand.
Ives m History (Ecclesiastical)
English form of Yves, used to refer to Saint Ives (also called Ivo) of Huntingdonshire, a semi-legendary English bishop.
Ivo 1 m German, Dutch, Czech, Italian, Portuguese, Estonian, Latvian, Germanic
Germanic name, originally a short form of names beginning with the element iwa meaning "yew". Alternative theories suggest that it may in fact be derived from a cognate Celtic element. This was the name of saints (who are also commonly known as Saint Yves or Ives), hailing from Cornwall, France, and Brittany.
Iwo m Polish
Polish form of Ivo 1.
Jakai m African American (Modern)
Meaning uncertain, possibly an invented name combining the popular prefix ja with the name Kai 1. It shares the same trendy sounds found in Mekhi and Zakai.
Jami 2 m Finnish
Diminutive of Viljami.
Jarrett m English
From a surname that was a variant of Garrett.
Jarvis m English
From an English surname that was derived from the given name Gervais.
Jean-Charles m French
Combination of Jean 1 and Charles.
Jean-Louis m French
Combination of Jean 1 and Louis.
Jean-Yves m French
Combination of Jean 1 and Yves.
Jéferson m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Portuguese form of Jefferson.
Jeff m English
Short form of Jeffrey.
Jefferson m English
From the English surname Jefferson meaning "son of Jeffrey". It is usually given in honour of Thomas Jefferson (1743-1826), the third president of the United States and the primary author of the Declaration of Independence.
Jeffery m English
Variant of Jeffrey.
Jeffrey m English
Medieval variant of Geoffrey. In America, Jeffrey has been more common than Geoffrey, though this is not true in Britain.
Jeffry m English
Variant of Jeffrey.
Jelle m Frisian, Dutch
Originally a Frisian short form of names beginning with the Old German element gelt meaning "payment, tribute, compensation". It can also be a Dutch diminutive of Willem.
Jelte m Frisian, Dutch
Variant of Jelle.
Jep m English (Archaic)
Medieval diminutive of Geoffrey.
Jepson m English (Rare)
From an English surname that meant "son of Jep".
Jerald m English
Variant of Gerald.
Jere m Finnish, Croatian, English
Finnish diminutive of Jeremias (usually used independently), as well as a Croatian diminutive of Jeronim and an English diminutive of Jerald or Jeremiah.
Jerold m English
Variant of Gerald.
Jerrard m English (Rare)
Variant of Gerard.
Jerrold m English
Variant of Gerald.
Jerry m & f English
Diminutive of Jeremy, Jerome, Gerald, Geraldine and other names beginning with the same sound. Notable bearers include the American comedians Jerry Lewis (1926-2017) and Jerry Seinfeld (1954-), as well as the American football player Jerry Rice (1962-).
Jervis m English (Rare)
From a surname that was a variant of Jarvis.
Jindra f & m Czech
Diminutive of Jindřiška or Jindřich.
Jindřich m Czech
Czech form of Heinrich (see Henry).
Jip m & f Frisian, Dutch
Originally a Frisian short form of names beginning with the Old German element geba meaning "gift". This is the name of a boy in the Dutch children's book series Jip and Janneke, first published 1952.
Jocelin m & f French, English (Rare)
Variant of Jocelyn.
Jocelyn f & m English, French
From a Frankish masculine name, variously written as Gautselin, Gauzlin, along with many other spellings. It was derived from the Germanic element *gautaz, which was from the name of the Germanic tribe the Geats, combined with a Latin diminutive suffix. The Normans brought this name to England in the form Goscelin or Joscelin, and it was common until the 14th century. It was revived in the 20th century primarily as a feminine name, perhaps an adaptation of the surname Jocelyn (a medieval derivative of the given name). In France this is a masculine name only.
Joffrey m French
French variant form of Geoffrey.
Jofre m Catalan
Catalan form of Geoffrey.
Jorrit m Frisian
Frisian form of Eberhard.
Joscelin m Old Norman
Norman form of Jocelyn.
José Luis m Spanish
Combination of José and Luis.
Joss f & m English
Short form of Jocelyn.
Josselin m French
French variant of Jocelyn.
Juan Carlos m Spanish
Combination of Juan 1 and Carlos.
Jurre m Frisian
Short form of Jurryt.
Jurryt m Frisian
Frisian form of Gerard.
Juscelino m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Portuguese form of Jocelyn. This name was borne by the Brazilian president Juscelino Kubitschek (1902-1976).
Kaarel m Estonian
Estonian form of Charles.
Kaarle m Finnish
Finnish form of Charles.
Kaarlo m Finnish
Finnish form of Charles.
Kai 1 m Frisian, German, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish, Finnish, Dutch, English
Meaning uncertain, possibly a Frisian diminutive of Gerhard, Nicolaas, Cornelis or Gaius. It is borne by a boy captured by the Snow Queen in an 1844 fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen. Spreading from Germany and Scandinavia, this name became popular in the English-speaking world and other places in Western Europe around the end of the 20th century.
Kaíque m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Variant of Caíque.
Kaj m Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Finnish
Danish form of Kai 1.
Kale m Hawaiian
Hawaiian form of Charles.
Karcsi m Hungarian
Diminutive of Károly.
Karel m Dutch, Czech, Slovene
Dutch, Czech and Slovene form of Charles.
Karl m German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, English, Finnish, Estonian, Germanic, Old Norse
German and Scandinavian form of Charles. This was the name of seven rulers of the Franks and the Holy Roman Empire. It was also borne by a beatified emperor of Austria (1887-1922), as well as ten kings of Sweden. Other famous bearers include the German philosophers Karl Marx (1818-1883), a political theorist and socialist, and Karl Jaspers (1883-1969), an existentialist and psychiatrist.
Karl-Heinz m German
Combination of Karl and Heinz.
Karlheinz m German
Combination of Karl and Heinz.
Kārlis m Latvian
Latvian form of Charles.
Karlmann m German (Archaic)
German form of Carloman.
Karlo m Croatian, Slovene, Georgian
Croatian, Slovene and Georgian form of Charles.
Karol 1 m Polish, Slovak, Slovene
Polish, Slovak and Slovene form of Karl.
Karolis m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Carolus.
Karolos m Greek
Greek form of Carolus.
Károly m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Karl.
Kay 3 m Frisian, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch
Variant of Kai 1.
Kendrick m English
From a surname that has several different origins. It could be from the Old English given names Cyneric "royal power" or Cenric "bold power", or from the Welsh name Cynwrig "chief hero". It can also be an Anglicized form of the Gaelic surname Mac Eanraig meaning "son of Henry".... [more]
Kenrick m English (Rare)
Variant of Kendrick.
Kiefer m English (Modern)
From a German surname meaning either "pine tree" or "barrel maker".
Kike m Spanish
Diminutive of Enrique.
Kiko m Spanish
Diminutive of Francisco or Enrique.
Kodey m English (Rare)
Variant of Cody.
Kody m English (Modern)
Variant of Cody.
Koen m Dutch
Short form of Koenraad.
Koenraad m Dutch
Dutch form of Conrad.
Koert m Dutch
Short form of Koenraad.
Koldo m Basque
Short form of Koldobika.
Koldobika m Basque
Basque form of Louis.
Kondrat m Polish (Archaic)
Archaic Polish form of Conrad.
Konrád m Hungarian, Czech, Slovak
Hungarian, Czech and Slovak form of Conrad.
Konrad m German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Polish, Slovene
German, Scandinavian, Polish and Slovene form of Conrad.
Kord m German (Rare)
German contracted form of Conrad.
Kunibert m German (Rare), Germanic
Derived from the Old German element kunni "clan, family" (or the related prefix kuni "royal") and beraht "bright". Saint Kunibert was a 7th-century bishop of Cologne.
Kuno m German, Germanic
Short form of names beginning with the Old German element kunni meaning "clan, family". It can also be a short form of Konrad.
Kurt m German, English, Swedish, Danish, Norwegian
German contracted form of Conrad. A famous bearer was the American musician Kurt Cobain (1967-1994).
Kvido m Czech
Czech form of Wido.
Kyler m English (Modern)
Probably a blend of the sounds of Kyle and Tyler. It also coincides with the surname Kyler, an Anglicized form of Dutch Cuyler.
Lajos m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Louis. It was borne by two Hungarian kings, starting with the 14th-century Lajos I the Great, who was named after his French uncle.
Lambaer m Limburgish
Limburgish form of Lambert. Its spelling has been influenced by the French pronunciation of Lambert.
Lambert m German, Dutch, French, English, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements lant "land" and beraht "bright". Saint Lambert of Maastricht was a 7th-century bishop who was martyred after denouncing Pepin II for adultery. The name was also borne by a 9th-century king of Italy who was crowned Holy Roman Emperor.
Lamberto m Italian, Spanish
Italian and Spanish form of Lambert.
Lammert m Dutch
Dutch variant of Lambert.
Lamprecht m German (Archaic), Germanic
German variant of Lambert.
Lance m English
From the Germanic name Lanzo, originally a short form of names that began with the Old Frankish or Old Saxon element land, Old High German lant meaning "land" (Proto-Germanic *landą). During the Middle Ages it became associated with Old French lance meaning "spear, lance". A famous bearer is American cyclist Lance Armstrong (1971-).
Lancelot m Arthurian Cycle
Possibly an Old French diminutive of Lanzo (see Lance). In Arthurian legend Lancelot was the bravest of the Knights of the Round Table. He became the lover of Arthur's wife Guinevere, ultimately causing the destruction of Arthur's kingdom. His earliest appearance is in the works of the 12th-century French poet Chrétien de Troyes: briefly in Erec and Enide and then as a main character in Lancelot, the Knight of the Cart.
Landebert m Germanic
Old German form of Lambert.
Lando m Italian
Italian form of Lanzo (see Lance).
Landric m Germanic
Germanic name derived from the elements lant "land" and rih "ruler, king".
Landry m French
French form of Landric. This name was borne by a few French saints, including a 5th-century bishop of Sées and a 7th-century bishop of Paris.
Landulf m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements lant meaning "land" and wolf meaning "wolf". This name was borne by several Lombard nobles.
Lanny m English
Diminutive of Lance, Landon and other names beginning with Lan.
Lanzo m Germanic
Old German form of Lance.
Launce m Literature
Short form of Launcelot, a variant of Lancelot. This was the name of a clownish character in Shakespeare's play The Two Gentlemen of Verona (1594).
Leib m Yiddish
Means "lion" in Yiddish, from Old High German lewo. This is a vernacular form of Arieh.
Lelle m Swedish
Diminutive of Lennart.
Len m English
Short form of Leonard.
Lénárd m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Leonard.
Lenard m English
Variant of Leonard.
Lenart m Slovene
Slovene form of Leonard.
Lenn m Dutch
Short form of Lennart.
Lennard m Dutch
Dutch variant of Leonard.
Lennart m Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Finnish, Estonian, Low German, Dutch
Swedish and Low German form of Leonard.
Lenni m Finnish
Finnish diminutive of Lennart.
Lennie m & f English
Diminutive of Leonard, sometimes a feminine form.
Lenny m English
Diminutive of Leonard.
Léo 2 m Portuguese
Short form of Leonardo.
Leobwin m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements liob "dear, beloved" and wini "friend", making it a cognate of Leofwine.
Léonard m French
French form of Leonard.
Leonard m English, Dutch, German, Polish, Romanian, Germanic
Means "brave lion", derived from the Old German elements lewo "lion" (of Latin origin) and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy". This was the name of a 6th-century Frankish saint from Noblac who is the patron of prisoners and horses. The Normans brought this name to England, where it was used steadily through the Middle Ages, becoming even more common in the 20th century.
Leonardas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Leonard.
Leonardo m Italian, Spanish, Portuguese
Italian, Spanish and Portuguese form of Leonard. A notable bearer was Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519), an Italian artist and scientist of the Renaissance. He is known as the inventor of several contraptions, including flying machines, as well as the painter of the Mona Lisa. Another famous bearer was Leonardo Fibonacci, a 13th-century Italian mathematician. A more recent bearer is American actor Leonardo DiCaprio (1974-).
Leonards m Latvian
Latvian form of Leonard.
Leonhard m German
German form of Leonard. A famous bearer was the Swiss mathematician Leonhard Euler (1707-1783), who made many important contributions to calculus, number theory, geometry and theoretical physics.
Léopold m French
French form of Leopold.
Leopold m German, Dutch, English, Czech, Slovak, Slovene, Polish
Derived from the Old German elements liut "people" and bald "bold, brave". The spelling was altered due to association with Latin leo "lion". This name was common among German royalty, first with the Babenbergs and then the Habsburgs. Saint Leopold was a 12th-century Babenberg margrave of Austria, who is now considered the patron of that country. It was also borne by two Habsburg Holy Roman emperors, as well as three kings of Belgium. Since the 19th century this name has been occasionally used in England, originally in honour of Queen Victoria's uncle, a king of Belgium, after whom she named one of her sons. It was later used by James Joyce for the main character, Leopold Bloom, in his novel Ulysses (1922).
Leopoldo m Italian, Spanish, Portuguese
Italian, Spanish and Portuguese form of Leopold.
Leudbald m Germanic
Old German form of Leopold.
Leudoberct m Germanic
Variant of Leutbert.
Leutbert m Germanic
Old German form of Lubbert.
Leutgar m Germanic
Old German form of Ludger.
Leuthar m Germanic
Old German name composed of the elements liut "people" and heri "army".
Leutwin m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements liut "people" and wini "friend". Saint Leutwin (or Leudwinus) was an 8th-century bishop of Trier.
Levin m German
German form of Leobwin.
Lew 1 m English
Short form of Lewis.
Lewis m English
Medieval English form of Louis. A famous bearer was Lewis Carroll (1832-1898), the author of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. This was also the surname of C. S. Lewis (1898-1963), the author of the Chronicles of Narnia series.
Liam m Irish, English, French (Modern), Dutch (Modern), German (Modern), Swedish (Modern), Norwegian (Modern)
Irish short form of William. It became popular in the United Kingdom in the 1980s, and elsewhere in Europe and the Americas after that. It was the top ranked name for boys in the United States beginning in 2017. Famous bearers include British actor Liam Neeson (1952-), British musician Liam Gallagher (1972-), and Australian actor Liam Hemsworth (1990-).
Lieber m Yiddish
From Yiddish ליבע (libe) meaning "love".
Lieven m Flemish
Flemish form of Leobwin.
Lievin m Flemish
Flemish form of Leobwin.
Linden m & f English
From a German and Dutch surname that was derived from Old High German linta meaning "linden tree".
Lindy m & f English
Originally this was a masculine name, coming into use in America in 1927 when the dance called the Lindy Hop became popular. The dance was probably named for aviator Charles Lindbergh. Later this name was used as a diminutive of Linda.
Liudvikas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Ludwig.
Liupold m Germanic
Old German form of Leopold.
Lluís m Catalan
Catalan form of Louis.
Lodewijk m Dutch
Dutch form of Ludwig.
Lodovico m Italian
Italian form of Ludwig.
Lohengrin m Arthurian Cycle
From the earlier form Loherangrin, derived from Lothringen, the German name for the region of Lorraine. It appears in Arthurian legend, initially in the 13th-century German poem Parzival by Wolfram von Eschenbach, belonging to a son of the knight Parzival. The tales were adapted by Richard Wagner for his opera Lohengrin (1850).
Loherangrin m Arthurian Cycle
Form of Lohengrin used by the 13th-century German poet Wolfram von Eschenbach.
Loïc m French, Breton
Breton form of Louis.
Loïk m French (Quebec)
Variant of Loïc.
Loís m Occitan
Occitan form of Louis.
Loïs 2 m French
Short form of Aloïs.
Lois 2 m Galician
Galician form of Louis.
Lojze m Slovene
Short form of Alojz.
Loránd m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Roland.
Lóránt m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Roland.
Lotario m Italian (Rare)
Italian form of Lothar.
Lothair m History
English form of Lothar.
Lothaire m French
French form of Lothar.
Lothar m German, Germanic
From the Germanic name Hlothar meaning "famous army", derived from the elements hlut "famous, loud" and heri "army". This was the name of medieval Frankish rulers of the Holy Roman Empire, Italy and France. It was also borne by four earlier Merovingian kings of the Franks, though their names are usually spelled as Chlothar.
Lou f & m English, French, Dutch
Short form of Louise or Louis. Famous bearers include the baseball player Lou Gehrig (1903-1941) and the musician Lou Reed (1942-2013).
Loui m Swedish, Danish
Swedish and Danish variant of Louie.
Louie m English
Diminutive of Louis.
Louis m French, English, Dutch
French form of Ludovicus, the Latinized form of Ludwig. This was the name of 18 kings of France, starting with Louis I the son of Charlemagne. Others include Louis IX (Saint Louis) who led two crusades and Louis XIV (called the Sun King) who was the ruler of France during the height of its power, the builder of the Palace of Versailles, and the longest reigning monarch in the history of Europe. It was also borne by kings of Germany (as Ludwig), Hungary (as Lajos), and other places.... [more]
Louison f & m French
French diminutive of both Louise and Louis.
Louwis m Walloon
Walloon form of Louis.
Love 1 m Swedish
Swedish form of Louis.
Lowe m Swedish
Variant of Love 1.
Lowie m Dutch
Dutch form of Louis.
Lubbert m Dutch
Dutch form of the Old German name Leutbert, derived from the elements liut "people" and beraht "bright". Liutbert (or Liutpert) was an 8th-century Lombard king.
Lucho m Spanish
Diminutive of Luis.
Luĉjo m Esperanto
Esperanto diminutive of Ludwig.
Ludde m Swedish
Swedish diminutive of Ludvig.
Luděk m Czech
Diminutive of Ludvík and other names beginning with Lud.
Ludger m German
From the Old German name Leutgar, which was derived from the elements liut "people" and ger "spear". Saint Ludger was an 8th-century Frisian Benedictine bishop who founded a monastery at Munster.
Ludis m Latvian
Latvian form of Ludwig.
Ludo m Flemish
Short form of Ludovicus or Ludolf.
Ludolf m German (Rare), Germanic
From the Old German name Hludolf, which was composed of the elements hlut meaning "famous, loud" and wolf meaning "wolf". Saint Ludolf (or Ludolph) was a 13th-century bishop of Ratzeburg.
Ludovic m French
French form of Ludovicus, the Latinized form of Ludwig. This was the name of an 1833 opera by the French composer Fromental Halévy.
Ludovico m Italian
Italian form of Ludwig.
Ludovicus m Germanic (Latinized), Dutch
Latinized form of Hludwig (see Ludwig). This form is also used as a baptismal name by Dutch and Flemish speakers, though it is commonly rendered Lodewijk in daily life.
Ludoviko m Esperanto
Esperanto form of Ludwig. This is the Esperanto name of the philologist Ludwig Zamenhof (1859-1917), the creator of the Esperanto language.
Ľudovít m Slovak
Possibly originally a form of Ljudevit, though it is now considered to be the Slovak form of Ludwig.
Ludvig m Swedish, Norwegian, Danish
Scandinavian form of Ludwig.
Ludvigs m Latvian
Latvian form of Ludwig.
Ludvík m Czech
Czech form of Ludwig.
Ludvik m Slovene
Slovene form of Ludwig.
Ludwig m German
From the Germanic name Hludwig meaning "famous in battle", composed of the elements hlut "famous, loud" and wig "war, battle". This was the name of three Merovingian kings of the Franks (though their names are usually spelled as Clovis) as well as several Carolingian kings and Holy Roman emperors (names often spelled in the French form Louis). Other famous bearers include the German composer Ludwig van Beethoven (1770-1827) and the Austrian philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein (1889-1951), who contributed to logic and the philosophy of language.
Ludwik m Polish
Polish form of Ludwig.
Luigi m Italian
Italian form of Louis. It has been borne by five prime ministers of Italy since the 19th century. This is also the name of Mario's brother in Nintendo video games (debuting 1983), called ルイージ (Ruīji) in Japanese.
Luigino m Italian
Diminutive of Luigi.
Luís m Portuguese
Portuguese form of Louis.
Luis m Spanish
Spanish form of Louis.
Luis Ángel m Spanish
Combination of Luis and Ángel.
Luisinho m Portuguese
Portuguese diminutive of Luís or Luiz.
Luisito m Spanish
Diminutive of Luis.
Luitger m German (Archaic)
Variant of Ludger.
Luitpold m German (Archaic)
German variant of Leopold.
Luiz m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Brazilian Portuguese form of Louis.
Lula 2 m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Diminutive of Luiz.
Luther m English
From a German surname, itself derived from the Old German given name Leuthar. The surname was borne by Martin Luther (1483-1546), a monk and theologian who started the Protestant Reformation by nailing his famous 95 theses to a church door. It has since been used as a given name in his honour, especially among Protestants. A notable bearer from the modern era was the American civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. (1929-1968).
Lúðvík m Icelandic
Icelandic form of Ludwig.
Lutz m German
German diminutive of Ludwig.
Lyam m French (Modern)
French variant of Liam.
Lynn f & m English
From an English surname that was derived from Welsh llyn meaning "lake". Before the start of the 20th century it was primarily used for boys, but it has since come to be more common for girls. In some cases it may be thought of as a short form of Linda or names that end in lyn or line.
Maan m Limburgish
Limburgish short form of Herman.
Madison f & m English
From the English surname Madison meaning "son of Matthew" or "son of Maud". It was not commonly used as a feminine name until after the movie Splash (1984), in which the main character adopted it as her name after seeing a street sign for Madison Avenue in New York City. It was ranked second for girls in the United States by 2001. This rise from obscurity to prominence in only 18 years represents an unprecedented 550,000 percent increase in usage.... [more]
Mahali 2 m Germanic
Old German form of Melle.
Major m English
From an English surname that was originally derived from the given name Mauger, a Norman French form of the Germanic name Malger meaning "council spear". The name can also be given in reference to the English word major.
Maldwyn m Welsh
From Maldwyn, another name for the old Welsh county of Montgomeryshire. It is so called from Trefaldwyn, the Welsh name for the county town of Montgomery, misinterpreting it as if meaning "town of Maldwyn". In fact it means "town of Baldwin" (in Welsh both m and b mutate to f).
Malger m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements mahal meaning "meeting, assembly, court" and ger meaning "spear".
Malte m Danish, Swedish, German
Danish short form of the Old German name Helmold. This name was used by the Austrian author Rainer Maria Rilke for the title character in his novel The Notebooks of Malte Laurids Brigge (1910).
Malthe m Danish
Variant of Malte.
Managold m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements manag "many" and walt "power, authority".
Manegold m Germanic
Variant of Managold.
Manfred m German, Dutch, Polish, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements man "man" and fridu "peace". It was borne by a 13th-century king of Sicily. Another notable bearer was Manfred von Richthofen (1892-1918), the World War I pilot known as the Red Baron. This is also the name of the main character in Lord Byron's drama Manfred (1817).
Manfredi m Italian
Southern Italian form of Manfred.
Manfredo m Italian
Italian form of Manfred.
Manfried m German (Rare)
German variant of Manfred.
Mannes m Dutch
Dutch short form of Hermannus.
Manno m Germanic
Originally a short form of Germanic names beginning with the element man meaning "person, man" (Proto-Germanic *mannô).
Mason m English
From an English surname (or vocabulary word) meaning "stoneworker", derived from an Old French word of Frankish origin (akin to Old English macian "to make"). In the United States this name began to increase in popularity in the 1980s, likely because of its fashionable sound. It jumped in popularity after 2009 when Kourtney Kardashian and Scott Disick gave it to their son, as featured on their reality show Keeping Up with the Kardashians in 2010. It peaked as the second most popular name for boys in 2011.
Mattie f & m English
Diminutive of Matilda, Martha or Matthew.
Maynard m English
From an English surname that was derived from the Old German given name Meginhard.
Maynerd m English (Rare)
Variant of Maynard.
Mayson m English (Modern)
Variant of Mason.
Meginfrid m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements megin "power, strength" and fridu "peace".
Meginhard m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements megin "power, strength" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy". This was the name of a 12th-century saint, a bishop of Livonia.
Meginrat m Germanic
Old German form of Meinrad.
Meinard m Dutch (Rare)
Dutch variant form of Meginhard.
Meindert m Dutch
Dutch form of Meginhard.
Meine m Frisian, Dutch
Originally a Frisian short form of names beginning with the Old German element megin meaning "power, strength" (Proto-Germanic *mageną).
Meinhard m German, Germanic
German form of Meginhard.
Meino m Germanic
Old German form of Meine.
Meinrad m German, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements megin "power, strength" and rat "counsel, advice". Saint Meinrad was a 9th-century hermit who founded the Benedictine abbey at Einsiedeln in Switzerland.
Meint m Dutch
Variant of Meine.
Melle m Dutch
Originally a short form of Germanic names beginning with the element mahal meaning "meeting, assembly, court" (Proto-Germanic *maþlą).
Mendel m Yiddish
Originally this was probably a Yiddish diminutive of Manno. It is now used as a diminutive of Menahem.
Menno m Dutch
Diminutive of Meine.
Minke m & f Frisian, Dutch
Diminutive and feminine form of Meine.
Moncho m Spanish
Diminutive of Ramón.
Monet f & m Various
From a French surname that was derived from either Hamon or Edmond. This was the surname of the French impressionist painter Claude Monet (1840-1926).
Monte m English, Armenian
Either a diminutive of Montgomery and other names beginning with Mont, or from the Spanish or Italian vocabulary word meaning "mountain". Its use as an Armenian name is inspired by the Armenian-American revolutionary Monte Melkonian (1957-1993).
Montgomery m English
From an English surname meaning "Gumarich's mountain" in Norman French. A notable bearer of this surname was Bernard Montgomery (1887-1976), a British army commander during World War II.
Monty m English
Variant of Monte.
Naldo m Italian (Rare)
Short form of names ending in naldo, such as Rinaldo or Arnaldo.
Neer m Limburgish
Short form of Reneer.
Nello m Italian
Short form of names ending in nello, such as Brunello or Antonello.
Nero 2 m Italian
Short form of Raniero. It also coincides with the Italian word nero meaning "black".
Nöl m Limburgish
Limburgish short form of Arnold.
Nölke m Limburgish
Limburgish diminutive of Arnold.
Nor 2 m Limburgish
Short form of Norbaer.
Norbaer m Limburgish
Limburgish form of Norbert. Its spelling has been influenced by the French pronunciation of Norbert.
Norbert m German, English, Dutch, French, Hungarian, Polish, Slovak, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements nord meaning "north" and beraht meaning "bright". This was the name of an 11th-century German saint who made many reforms within the Church.
Norberto m Spanish, Portuguese, Italian
Spanish, Portuguese and Italian form of Norbert.
Norm m English
Short form of Norman.
Norman m English, Germanic
From an old Germanic byname meaning "northman", referring to a Scandinavians. The Normans were Vikings who settled on the coast of France, in the region that became known as Normandy. In England the name Norman or Normant was used before the Norman Conquest, first as a nickname for Scandinavian settlers and later as a given name. After the Conquest it became more common, but died out around the 14th century. It was revived in the 19th century, perhaps in part due to a character by this name in C. M. Yonge's 1856 novel The Daisy Chain. Famous bearers include the American painter Norman Rockwell (1894-1978) and the American author Norman Mailer (1923-2007).
Normunds m Latvian
Latvian name, created early in the 20th century, from the Old German elements nord "north" and munt "protection".
Noud m Dutch
Short form of Arnoud.
Nout m Dutch
Short form of Arnout.
Oberon m Literature
Variant of Auberon. Oberon and Titania are the king and queen of the fairies in Shakespeare's comedy A Midsummer Night's Dream (1595). A moon of Uranus bears this name in his honour.
Odalgar m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements uodil "heritage" and ger "spear".
Odalis f & m Spanish (Latin American)
Possibly an elaboration of Odilia used in Latin America. In most countries it is a feminine name, but in the Dominican Republic it is commonly masculine.
Odalric m Germanic
Old German form of Ulrich.
Oddo m Italian (Rare)
Italian form of Otto.
Ode m Medieval English
Medieval English form of Odo.
Odilo m Germanic
Masculine form of Odilia. Saint Odilo (or Odilon) was an 11th-century abbot of Cluny in France.
Odilon m French
French form of Odilo.
Odo m Germanic
Variant of Otto. This form is typically Frankish, and used when referring to historical bearers from medieval France. It was the name of a 9th-century king of the West Franks. Another notable bearer was Saint Odo, a 10th-century abbot of Cluny.
Ogier m Carolingian Cycle
French form of Audagar. In La Chanson de Roland and other medieval French romances, this is the name of one of Charlemagne's knights. He is said to be from Denmark, and is sometimes called Holger.
Oldřich m Czech
Czech form of Ulrich.
Oldrich m Slovak
Slovak form of Ulrich.
Olegário m Portuguese
Portuguese form of Olegario.
Olegario m Spanish
From Olegarius, the Latinized form of a Germanic name, possibly Aldegar or a metathesized form of Odalgar. This was the name of a 12th-century saint, a bishop of Barcelona.
Olegarius m Germanic (Latinized)
Latin form of Olegario.
Oleguer m Catalan
Catalan form of Olegario.
Onfroi m Medieval French
Norman French form of Humphrey.
Orlando m Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Carolingian Cycle
Italian form of Roland, as used in the epic poems Orlando Innamorato (1483) by Matteo Maria Boiardo and the continuation Orlando Furioso (1532) by Ludovico Ariosto. In the poems, Orlando is a knight in Charlemagne's army who battles against the invading Saracens. A character in Shakespeare's play As You Like It (1599) also bears this name, as does a city in Florida.
Ortwin m German, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements ort "point" and wini "friend". This is the name of Gudrun's brother in the medieval German epic Kudrun.
Osbert m English (Rare)
Derived from the Old English elements os "god" and beorht "bright". After the Norman Conquest, this Old English name was merged with its Norman cognate. It was rare in the Middle Ages, and eventually died out. It was briefly revived in the 19th century.
Osmar m Portuguese (Brazilian), Spanish (Latin American)
Probably a blend of names such as Óscar, Osvaldo, Omar 1 and Ademar. Alternatively, it might be inspired by the Old English name Osmær.
Ota m Czech, Sorbian
Czech and Sorbian form of Otto.
Otgar m Germanic
Variant of Audagar.
Othmar m German, Germanic
Variant of Otmar.
Otis m English
From an English surname that was derived from the medieval given name Ode, a cognate of Otto. In America it has been used in honour of the revolutionary James Otis (1725-1783).
Otmar m German, Czech, Germanic
From the Germanic name Audamar, which was derived from Old Frankish aud or Old High German ot meaning "wealth, fortune" combined with mari meaning "famous". This was the name of an 8th-century Swiss saint, an abbot of Saint Gall.
Oto m Czech, Slovak
Czech and Slovak form of Otto.
Ott m Estonian
Possibly an Estonian form of Otto. It may also be inspired by an archaic Estonian word meaning "bear".
Ottmar m German
Variant of Otmar.
Otto m German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, Germanic
Later German form of Audo, originally a short form of various names beginning with Old Frankish aud or Old High German ot meaning "wealth, fortune". This was the name of a 9th-century king of the West Franks (name usually spelled as Odo). This was also the name of four kings of Germany, starting in the 10th century with Otto I, the first Holy Roman Emperor, known as Otto the Great. Saint Otto of Bamberg was a 12th-century missionary to Pomerania. The name was also borne by a 19th-century king of Greece, originally from Bavaria. Another notable bearer was the German chancellor Otto von Bismarck (1815-1898).
Ottó m Hungarian, Icelandic
Hungarian and Icelandic form of Otto.
Ottomar m German (Rare)
Variant of Otmar.
Ottone m Italian (Rare)
Italian form of Otto.
Ottorino m Italian
Originally a variant of Ottolino, a diminutive of Ottone.
Otwin m German (Rare)
German form of Audowin.
Parry m English (Rare)
From a Welsh surname that was derived from ap Harry meaning "son of Harry".
Pepijn m Dutch
Dutch form of Pepin.
Pépin m French
French form of Pepin.
Pepin m Germanic
Frankish name of unknown meaning. It possibly means "awe-inspiring" from the Germanic word *bibēną "to tremble". This was the name of three majordomos of Austrasia including Pepin III the Short, who became the first Carolingian king of the Franks. He was the father of Charlemagne.
Perry m English
From a surname that is either English or Welsh in origin. It can be derived from Middle English perrie meaning "pear tree", or else from Welsh ap Herry, meaning "son of Herry". A famous bearer of the surname was Matthew Perry (1794-1858), the American naval officer who opened Japan to the West.
Pertti m Finnish
Short form of Roopertti or Alpertti.
Pharamond m History
Variant of Faramund. This form was used by Shakespeare in his historical play Henry V (1599), referring to the Frankish king.
Philbert m French (Rare)
Variant of Philibert.
Philibert m French, Germanic
Early variant of Filibert altered by association with Greek φίλος (philos) meaning "friend, lover". A famous bearer was Philibert de l'Orme (1510-1570), a French Renaissance architect.
Pierluigi m Italian
Combination of Piero and Luigi.
Pim m Dutch
Diminutive of Willem.
Pipin m Germanic
Old German (Frankish) form of Pepin.
Pippin 1 m Germanic
Old German form of Pepin. The 1972 musical Pippin is loosely based on the life of Charlemagne's eldest son Pepin the Hunchback.
Poldi m German
German diminutive of Leopold.
Priidik m Estonian
Estonian form of Frederick.
Priit m Estonian
Short form of Priidik.
Quido m Czech (Rare)
Czech form of Wido.
Quique m Spanish
Diminutive of Enrique.
Rab m Scots
Scots short form of Robert.
Raban m Germanic
Variant of Hraban.
Rabbie m Scots
Scots diminutive of Robert. This is the familiar name of the Scottish poet Robert Burns (1759-1796).
Radbod m Germanic
Old German form of Radboud.
Radboud m Dutch (Rare)
Derived from the Old German elements rat meaning "counsel, advice" and bot meaning "command, order". This was the name of a 7th-century king of the Frisians.
Radobod m Germanic
Old German form of Radboud.
Radulf m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements rat "counsel, advice" and wolf "wolf", making it a cognate of Ráðúlfr.
Rafe m English
Variant of Ralph. This form became common during the 17th century, reflecting the usual pronunciation.
Ragemprand m Germanic
Old German form of Rembrandt.
Raginald m Germanic
Old German form of Reynold.
Raginbert m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements regin "advice, counsel, decision" and beraht "bright". This was the name of an 8th-century Lombard king.
Raginhard m Germanic
Old German form of Reynard.
Raginheri m Germanic
Old German form of Rayner.
Raginmar m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements regin "counsel, advice, decision" and mari "famous".
Raginmund m Germanic
Old German form of Raymond.
Raginolf m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements regin "advice, counsel, decision" and wolf "wolf".
Raibeart m Scottish Gaelic
Scottish Gaelic form of Robert.
Raimo m Finnish
Finnish form of Raymond.
Raimon m Catalan
Catalan variant form of Raymond.
Raimond m Estonian
Estonian form of Raymond.
Raimondas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Raymond.
Raimondo m Italian
Italian form of Raymond.
Raimonds m Latvian
Latvian form of Raymond.
Raimund m German, Germanic
German form of Raymond.
Raimundas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Raymond.
Raimundo m Spanish, Portuguese
Spanish and Portuguese form of Raymond.
Rain 2 m Estonian
Variant of Rein.
Rainard m Germanic
Variant of Reynard.
Raine f & m English (Rare)
From a surname derived from the Old French nickname reine meaning "queen". A famous bearer was the British socialite Raine Spencer (1929-2016), the stepmother of Princess Diana. In modern times it is also considered a variant of Rain 1.
Rainer m German, Germanic
German form of Rayner.
Rainerio m Spanish (Rare)
Spanish form of Rayner.
Rainier m French (Rare)
French form of Rayner.
Rainulf m Germanic
Variant of Raginolf.
Raivo m Estonian
Meaning uncertain. It is possibly a diminutive of Raimond or it could be related to the Old Estonian word raivo meaning "fury, rage".
Rajmund m Polish, Hungarian, Slovene
Polish, Hungarian and Slovene form of Raymond.
Ralf m German, Swedish, Danish, English (Rare)
Variant of Ralph.
Ralph m English, German, Swedish
Contracted form of the Old Norse name Ráðúlfr (or its Norman form Radulf). Scandinavian settlers introduced it to England before the Norman Conquest, though afterwards it was bolstered by Norman influence. In the Middle Ages it was variously spelled Rauf, Rafe or Ralf reflecting the usual pronunciation. The Ralph spelling became more common in the 18th century. A famous bearer of the name was Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-1882), an American poet and author who wrote on transcendentalism.
Ralphie m English
Diminutive of Ralph.
Rambert m Germanic
Variant of Hrambert or Raginbert. These names have become confused with one another and merged together. Saint Rambert, also called Ragnebert, was martyred near Lyon in the 7th century.
Ramón m Spanish
Spanish form of Raymond.
Ramon m Catalan
Catalan form of Raymond.
Rand m English
Short form of Randolf and other names beginning with Rand. As a surname (also derived from Randolf), it was borne as a pen name by the Russian-American author Ayn Rand (1905-1982).
Randal m English
Variant of Randall.
Randall m English
From an English surname that was derived from the medieval given name Randel.
Randel m Medieval English
Medieval diminutive of Randolf and other names beginning with the Germanic element rant meaning "rim (of a shield)".
Randell m English
Variant of Randall.
Randolf m English
From the Old German elements rant meaning "rim (of a shield)" and wolf meaning "wolf". The Normans brought this name to England, where there existed already an Old Norse cognate Randúlfr, which had been introduced by Scandinavian settlers. Randolf became rare after the Middle Ages, though it was revived in the 18th century (usually in the spelling Randolph).
Randolph m English
Variant of Randolf. This spelling was adopted in the 18th century.
Randulf m Germanic
Old German form of Randolf.
Randy m & f English
Diminutive of Randall, Randolf or Miranda.
Raniero m Italian
Italian form of Rayner.
Ranulf m Medieval English
Medieval English form of Raginolf. Norman settlers and invaders introduced this name to England and Scotland.
Ranulph m English (Rare)
Variant of Ranulf.
Raoul m French
French form of Radulf (see Ralph).
Ratamar m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements rat "counsel, advice" and mari "famous".
Raúl m Spanish
Spanish form of Radulf (see Ralph).
Raül m Catalan
Catalan form of Radulf (see Ralph).
Raul m Portuguese, Italian, Romanian, Estonian, Azerbaijani
Portuguese, Italian and Romanian form of Radulf (see Ralph), also adopted in several other countries, in part from the Spanish form Raúl.
Ray m English
Short form of Raymond, often used as an independent name. It coincides with an English word meaning "beam of light". Science-fiction author Ray Bradbury (1920-2012) and musician Ray Charles (1930-2004) are two notable bearers of the name.
Raymond m English, French
From the Germanic name Raginmund, composed of the elements regin "advice, counsel, decision" and munt "protection". The Normans introduced this name to England in the form Reimund. It was borne by several medieval (mostly Spanish) saints, including Saint Raymond Nonnatus, the patron of midwives and expectant mothers, and Saint Raymond of Peñafort, the patron of canonists.
Raymund m English (Rare)
Variant of Raymond.
Raymundo m Spanish (Latin American), Portuguese (Brazilian)
Spanish and Portuguese variant form of Raymond.
Raynard m English
Variant of Reynard.
Rayne f & m English (Modern)
From a surname that was a variant of Raine. It can also be considered a variant of Rain 1.
Rayner m English (Archaic)
From the Germanic name Raginheri, composed of the elements regin "advice, counsel, decision" and heri "army". Saint Rainerius was a 12th-century hermit from Pisa. The Normans brought this name to England where it came into general use, though it was rare by the end of the Middle Ages.
Réamann m Irish
Irish form of Raymond.
Réamonn m Irish
Irish form of Raymond.
Redmond m Irish
Anglicized form of Réamonn.
Redmund m Irish (Rare)
Anglicized form of Réamann.
Reg m English
Short form of Reginald.
Reggie m English
Diminutive of Reginald.
Regin m Germanic
Old German form of Rein.
Reginald m English
From Reginaldus, a Latinized form of Reynold.
Reginaldo m Portuguese
Portuguese form of Reginald.
Reima m Finnish
Finnish form of Raymond.
Reimund m German
German form of Raymond.
Rein m Frisian, Dutch, Estonian
Originally a short form of Germanic names beginning with the element regin meaning "advice, counsel, decision" (Proto-Germanic *raginą).
Reinald m Germanic
Old German form of Reynold.
Reinaldo m Portuguese, Spanish
Portuguese and Spanish form of Reynold.
Reinder m Frisian
Frisian form of Rayner (or sometimes Reynard).
Reindert m Frisian
Frisian form of Reynard.
Reiner m German, Germanic
German form of Rayner.
Reinhard m German, Germanic
German cognate of Reynard.
Reinhardt m German
German variant form of Reynard.
Reinhold m German, Germanic
German form of Reynold.
Reinholds m Latvian (Rare)
Latvian form of Reinhold.
Reinier m Dutch
Dutch form of Rayner.
Reinis m Latvian
Originally a short form of Reinholds and other Germanic names starting with the same element.
Reino m Finnish
Finnish form of Reynold.
Reinoud m Dutch
Dutch cognate of Reynold.
Reinout m Dutch
Dutch cognate of Reynold.
Rémann m Medieval Irish
Medieval Irish form of Raymond.
Remao m Limburgish
Limburgish form of Raymond. Its spelling has been influenced by the French pronunciation of Raymond.
Rembert m Germanic
Variant of Raginbert. This name was borne by a 9th-century saint, also called Rimbert, a bishop of Bremen and Hamburg.
Rembrandt m Dutch (Rare)
From a Germanic name that was composed of the elements regin "advice, counsel, decision" and brant "fire, torch, sword". This name belonged to the Dutch painter Rembrandt van Rijn (1606-1669).
Remco m Dutch
Derived from the Frisian name Remme.
Remme m Frisian
Possibly originally a Frisian short form of Germanic names such as Ratamar or Raginmar.
Renard m French (Rare)
French form of Reynard. Because of the medieval character Reynard the Fox, renard became a French word meaning "fox".
Renārs m Latvian
Latvian form of Reinhard.
Renaud m French, Carolingian Cycle
French form of Reynold. This name was used in medieval French literature for the hero Renaud de Montauban, a young man who flees with his three brothers from the court of Charlemagne after killing the king's nephew. Charlemagne pardons the brothers on the condition that they enter the Crusades. A loose version of the character also appears in medieval Italian extensions of the tales, in the Italian form Rinaldo.
Reneer m Limburgish
Limburgish form of Rayner.
Rey m Spanish
Short form of Reynaldo. It is also a Spanish word meaning "king".
Reynaldo m Spanish, Portuguese
Spanish and Portuguese form of Reynold.
Reynard m English (Rare)
From the Germanic name Raginhard, composed of the elements regin "advice, counsel, decision" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy". The Normans brought it to England in the form Reinard, though it never became very common there. In medieval fables the name was borne by the sly hero Reynard the Fox (with the result that renard has become a French word meaning "fox").
Reynaud m French (Rare)
French variant of Renaud.
Reynold m English
From the Germanic name Raginald, composed of the elements regin "advice, counsel, decision" and walt "power, authority". The Normans (who used forms like Reinald or Reinold) brought the name to Britain, where it reinforced rare Old English and Norse cognates already in existence. It was common during the Middle Ages, but became more rare after the 15th century.
Rezső m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Roger.
Rheinallt m Welsh
Welsh form of Reynold.
Rhisiart m Welsh
Welsh form of Richard.
Ric m English
Short form of Richard or names ending in ric.
Ricard m Catalan
Catalan form of Richard.
Ričardas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Richard.
Ricardo m Spanish, Portuguese
Spanish and Portuguese form of Richard.
Ričards m Latvian
Latvian form of Richard.
Riccardo m Italian
Italian form of Richard.
Rich m English
Short form of Richard.
Richárd m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Richard.
Richard m English, French, German, Czech, Slovak, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Germanic
Means "brave ruler", derived from the Old German elements rih "ruler, king" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy". This was the name of three early dukes of Normandy. The Normans introduced it to England when they invaded in the 11th century, and it has been very common there since that time. It was borne by three kings of England including the 12th-century Richard I the Lionheart, one of the leaders of the Third Crusade.... [more]
Richie m English
Diminutive of Richard.
Rick m English
Short form of Richard or names ending in rick. A notable fictional bearer is Rick Blaine, portrayed by Humphrey Bogart, from the movie Casablanca (1942).
Rickard m Swedish
Swedish variant of Richard.
Rickey m English
Diminutive of Richard.
Ricki m & f English
Variant and feminine form of Ricky.
Rickie m English
Diminutive of Richard.
Ricky m English
Diminutive of Richard.
Ricmod f & m Germanic
Derived from the Old German element rih "ruler, king" combined with muot "mind, spirit".
Rico m Spanish, Italian
Short form of Ricardo, Enrico and other names ending in rico.
Ricohard m Germanic
Old German form of Richard.
Rien 1 m Dutch
Dutch cognate of Rein.
Rigobert m Germanic, German, French
Derived from the Old German element rih "ruler, king" combined with beraht "bright". Saint Rigobert was an 8th-century bishop of Reims.
Rigoberto m Spanish
Spanish form of Rigobert.
Rihard m Slovene
Slovene form of Richard.
Rihards m Latvian
Latvian form of Richard.
Rik m Dutch
Short form of Hendrik, Frederik and other names containing rik.
Rikard m Swedish, Norwegian
Swedish and Norwegian variant of Richard.
Rikárdó m Hungarian (Modern)
Hungarian form of Ricardo.
Rikhard m Finnish
Finnish form of Richard.
Rikki f & m English (Modern)
Variant and feminine form of Ricky.
Riku 1 m Finnish
Finnish short form of Richard.
Rinaldo m Italian, Carolingian Cycle
Italian form of Reynold. This is the Italian name of the hero Renaud, appearing as the cousin of Orlando in the Orlando poems (1483 and 1532) by Boiardo and Ariosto. A different version of this character features in the poem Jerusalem Delivered (1580) by Torquato Tasso.
Rino m Italian
Short form of names ending in rino.
Riško m Slovak
Diminutive of Richard.
Rišo m Slovak
Diminutive of Richard.
Risteárd m Irish
Irish form of Richard.
Ritchie m English
Variant of Richie.
Roan m Frisian
Originally a short form of names beginning with the Old German element hraban meaning "raven".
Rob m English, Dutch
Short form of Robert.
Robbe m Dutch
Diminutive of Robrecht.
Robbert m Dutch
Dutch variant of Robert.
Robbie m & f English
Diminutive of Robert or Roberta.
Robbin f & m English
Variant of Robin.
Robby m English
Diminutive of Robert.
Róbert m Hungarian, Slovak, Icelandic
Hungarian and Icelandic form of Robert.
Robert m English, French, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German, Dutch, Finnish, Estonian, Czech, Polish, Russian, Slovene, Croatian, Albanian, Romanian, Catalan, Germanic
From the Germanic name Hrodebert meaning "bright fame", derived from the elements hruod "fame" and beraht "bright". The Normans introduced this name to Britain, where it replaced the rare Old English cognate Hreodbeorht. It has been consistently among the most common English names from the 13th to 20th century. In the United States it was the most popular name for boys between 1924 and 1939 (and again in 1953).... [more]
Robertas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Robert.
Roberto m Italian, Spanish, Portuguese
Italian, Spanish and Portuguese form of Robert. Saint Roberto Bellarmine was a 16th-century cardinal who is regarded as a Doctor of the Church. Another famous bearer was Roberto de Nobili (1577-1656), a Jesuit missionary to India.
Roberts m Latvian
Latvian form of Robert.
Robertus m Germanic (Latinized), Dutch
Latinized form of Robert. This is also the official Dutch form, used on birth certificates but not typically in daily life.
Robi 1 m Hungarian
Diminutive of Róbert.
Robin m & f English, French, Dutch, Swedish, Czech
Medieval English diminutive of Robert, now usually regarded as an independent name. Robin Hood was a legendary English hero and archer who stole from the rich to give to the poor. This name is also borne by the character Christopher Robin from the Winnie-the-Pooh books by A. A. Milne, based on the author's son Christopher Robin Milne (1920-1996). Another notable bearer was the American actor and comedian Robin Williams (1951-2014). In modern times it has also been used as a feminine name, and it may sometimes be given in reference to the red-breasted bird.
Robinson m English (Rare)
From the English surname Robinson, which was a patronymic form of the given name Robin. This is the name of the main character in Daniel Defoe's novel Robinson Crusoe (1719), about a sailor shipwrecked on a remote island.
Robrecht m Dutch (Rare)
Older Dutch form of Robert, still sometimes used in Belgium.
Robson m English, Portuguese (Brazilian)
From the English surname Robson, a patronymic form of the given name Rob.
Roc m Catalan
Catalan form of Rocco.
Rocco m Italian, Germanic
Germanic name possibly derived from hruoh meaning "crow, rook". This was the name of a 14th-century French saint who nursed victims of the plague but eventually contracted the disease himself. He is the patron saint of the sick.
Roch m French, Polish
French and Polish form of Rocco.
Rochus m German (Rare), Dutch (Rare), Germanic (Latinized)
Latinized form of Rocco, used in occasionally German and Dutch.
Rocky m English
Diminutive of Rocco and other names beginning with a similar sound, or else a nickname referring to a tough person. This is the name of the boxer Rocky Balboa (played by Sylvester Stallone) in the movie Rocky (1976) and its sequels.
Rod m English
Short form of Roderick or Rodney.
Roddy m English, Scottish
Diminutive of Roderick or Rodney.
Roderick m English, Scottish, Welsh
Means "famous ruler" from the Old German elements hruod "fame" and rih "ruler, king". This name was in use among the Visigoths; it was borne by their last king (Gothic form *Hroþireiks, also known by the Spanish form Rodrigo), who died fighting the Muslim invaders of Spain in the 8th century. It also had cognates in Old Norse and West Germanic, and Scandinavian settlers and Normans introduced it to England, though it died out after the Middle Ages. It was revived in the English-speaking world by Walter Scott's 1811 poem The Vision of Don Roderick.... [more]
Rodge m English
Short form of Rodger.
Rodger m English
Variant of Roger.
Rodolf m German (Rare), Dutch (Rare)
German form of Rudolf.
Rodolfito m Spanish (Rare)
Spanish diminutive of Rodolfo.
Rodolfo m Italian, Spanish, Portuguese
Italian, Spanish and Portuguese form of Rudolf. This is the name of the hero in Puccini's opera La Bohème (1896).
Rodolph m English (Rare), French (Rare)
Variant of Rudolf.
Rodolphe m French
French form of Rudolf.
Roel m Dutch
Short form of Roeland or Roelof.
Roeland m Dutch
Dutch form of Roland.
Roelof m Dutch
Dutch form of Rudolf.
Rogelio m Spanish
Spanish form of the Late Latin name Rogellus or Rogelius. This was probably related to the Germanic name Hrodger (see Roger), perhaps a remnant of a Visigothic cognate. It has also been suggested that it could be derived from a diminutive of the Latin name Rogatus. Saint Rogellus was a 9th-century martyr from Córdoba.
Roger m English, French, Catalan, Swedish, Norwegian, German, Dutch
From the Germanic name Hrodger meaning "famous spear", derived from the elements hruod "fame" and ger "spear". The Normans brought this name to England, where it replaced the Old English cognate Hroðgar (the name of the Danish king in the Anglo-Saxon epic Beowulf). It was a common name in England during the Middle Ages. By the 18th century it was rare, but it was revived in following years. The name was borne by the Norman lords Roger I, who conquered Sicily in the 11th century, and his son Roger II, who ruled Sicily as a king.... [more]
Rogério m Portuguese
Portuguese form of Roger.
Rogier m Dutch
Dutch form of Roger (via Old French).
Roibeárd m Irish
Irish form of Robert.
Rok m Slovene
Slovene form of Rocco.
Rokas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Rocco.
Roko m Croatian
Croatian form of Rocco.
Rokus m Dutch
Dutch variant of Rochus.
Rolan m Russian
Russian form of Roland.
Roland m English, French, German, Swedish, Dutch, Hungarian, Polish, Slovak, Albanian, Georgian, Carolingian Cycle
From the Old German elements hruod meaning "fame" and lant meaning "land", though some theories hold that the second element was originally nand meaning "brave".... [more]
Rolandas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Roland.
Rolando m Spanish, Italian, Portuguese
Spanish, Italian and Portuguese form of Roland.
Rolands m Latvian
Latvian form of Roland.
Rolant m Medieval French, Carolingian Cycle
Old French form of Roland.
Roldán m Spanish
Spanish form of Roland.
Roldão m Portuguese (Rare)
Portuguese form of Roland.
Rolf m German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, English
From the Old German name Hrolf (or its Old Norse cognate Hrólfr), a contracted form of Hrodulf (see Rudolf). The Normans introduced this name to England but it soon became rare. In the modern era it has occasionally been used in the English-speaking world as a German import.
Rolland m French, English
Variant of Roland.
Rollant m Medieval French, Carolingian Cycle
Old French form of Roland. This form is used in the oldest surviving text of La Chanson de Roland.
Rollie m English
Diminutive of Roland.
Rolph m English (Rare)
Variant of Rolf.
Roly m English
Diminutive of Roland.
Romas m Lithuanian
Short form of Romualdas, Romanas and other names beginning with Rom.
Romey f & m English (Rare)
Diminutive of Rosemary and names starting with Rom.
Romuald m French, Polish, Germanic
From the Germanic elements hruom meaning "fame, glory" and walt meaning "power, authority". This was the name of an 11th-century Italian saint who founded the Camaldolese order.
Romualdas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Romuald.
Romualdo m Italian, Spanish, Portuguese
Italian, Spanish and Portuguese form of Romuald.
Romualds m Latvian
Latvian form of Romuald.
Ronne m Frisian
Variant of Roan.
Roope m Finnish
Finnish form of Robert.
Roopertti m Finnish (Rare)
Older Finnish form of Robert.
Roosevelt m English
From the Dutch surname Roosevelt meaning "rose field". This name is often given in honour of American presidents Theodore Roosevelt (1858-1919) or Franklin D. Roosevelt (1882-1945).
Roparzh m Breton
Breton form of Robert.
Roque m Spanish, Portuguese
Spanish and Portuguese form of Rocco.
Rowland m English
Medieval variant of Roland.
Rowley m English
Variant of Roly.
Royce m English
From an English surname that was derived from the medieval given name Royse, a variant of Rose.
Royston m English (British)
From a surname that was originally taken from an Old English place name meaning "town of Royse". The given name Royse was a medieval variant of Rose.
Rudi m German, Hungarian
Diminutive of Rudolf.
Rüdiger m German
German form of Roger.
Rudolf m German, Czech, Slovak, Hungarian, Dutch, Russian, Armenian
From the Germanic name Hrodulf, which was derived from the elements hruod meaning "fame" and wolf meaning "wolf". It was borne by three kings of Burgundy and a king of West Francia, as well as several Habsburg rulers of the Holy Roman Empire and Austria. Anthony Hope used this name for the hero in his popular novel The Prisoner of Zenda (1894).
Rūdolfs m Latvian
Latvian form of Rudolf.
Rudolph m English
English form of Rudolf, imported from Germany in the 19th century. Robert L. May used it in 1939 for his Christmas character Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer.
Rudy m English
Diminutive of Rudolf.
Ruedi m German (Swiss)
Swiss diminutive of Rudolf.
Ruggero m Italian
Italian form of Roger.
Ruggiero m Italian, Carolingian Cycle
Italian form of Roger. This is the name of a Saracen knight in the epic poems Orlando Innamorato (1483) by Matteo Maria Boiardo and Orlando Furioso (1532) by Ludovico Ariosto, as well as several operas based on the poems. In the tales Ruggiero is a noble opponent of Orlando who falls in love with the female knight Bradamante.
Rupert m German, English
German variant form of Robert, from the Old German variant Hrodperht. It was borne by the 7th century Saint Rupert of Salzburg and the 8th-century Saint Rupert of Bingen. The military commander Prince Rupert of the Rhine, a nephew of Charles I, introduced this name to England in the 17th century. A notable bearer is the Australian-American businessman Rupert Murdoch (1931-).
Ruperto m Spanish
Spanish form of Rupert.
Ruprecht m German (Archaic)
Variant of Rupert.
Rutger m Dutch
Dutch form of Roger.
Ruth 2 m Limburgish
Limburgish short form of Rutger.
Ruud m Dutch
Dutch short form of Rudolf. This name is borne by retired Dutch soccer player Ruud Gullit (1962-).
Ryker m English (Modern)
Possibly a variant of the German surname Riker, a derivative of Low German rike "rich". As a modern English name, it has become popular because it shares the same trendy sounds found in other names such as Ryan and Ryder.
Ryszard m Polish
Polish form of Richard.
Séafra m Irish
Irish form of Geoffrey.
Séarlas m Irish
Irish form of Charles.
Segismundo m Spanish
Spanish form of Sigismund.
Shug m Scots
Scots diminutive of Hugh.
Siarl m Welsh
Welsh form of Charles.
Sieffre m Welsh
Welsh form of Geoffrey.
Siegbert m German
Derived from the Old German elements sigu "victory" and beraht "bright". This was the name of several Frankish kings, including the 7th-century Sigebert III of Austrasia who is regarded as a saint.
Sieger m Dutch (Rare)
Derived from the Old German elements sigu "victory" and heri "army".
Siegfried m German, Germanic Mythology
Derived from the Old German elements sigu "victory" and fridu "peace". Siegfried was a hero from German legend, the chief character in the Nibelungenlied. He secretly helped the Burgundian king Gunther overcome the challenges set out by the Icelandic queen Brunhild so that Gunther might win her hand. In exchange, Gunther consented to the marriage of Siegfried and his sister Kriemhild. Years later, after a dispute between Brunhild and Kriemhild, Siegfried was murdered by Hagen with Gunther's consent. He was stabbed in his one vulnerable spot on the small of his back, which had been covered by a leaf while he bathed in dragon's blood. He is a parallel to the Norse hero Sigurd. The story was later adapted by Richard Wagner to form part of his opera The Ring of the Nibelung (1876).
Sieghard m German
Derived from the Old German elements sigu "victory" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy".
Siegmar m German
Derived from the Old German elements sigu "victory" and mari "famous".
Siegmund m German
German variant of Sigmund.
Siegward m German (Rare)
German form of Sigiward, the continental Germanic cognate of Sigurd.
Siet m Frisian (Archaic)
Meaning uncertain, perhaps originally a short form of names beginning with the Old German element sigu meaning "victory".
Sietse m Frisian
Diminutive of Siet.
Sieuwerd m Dutch (Rare)
Dutch form of Sigiward, the Germanic cognate of Sigurd.
Sievert m Low German (Rare)
Low German form of Sigiward, the Germanic cognate of Sigurd.
Sigdag m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements sigu "victory" and tag "day".
Sigebert m Germanic
Old German form of Siegbert.
Sigfrido m Italian (Rare), Spanish (Rare)
Italian and Spanish form of Siegfried.
Sigi m & f German
Diminutive of Siegfried, Sieglinde, and other Old German names beginning with the element sigu meaning "victory".
Sigibert m Germanic
Old German form of Siegbert.
Sigifrid m Germanic
Old German form of Siegfried.
Sigihard m Germanic
Old German form of Sieghard.
Sigiheri m Germanic
Old German form of Sieger.
Sigimar m Germanic
Old German form of Siegmar.
Sigimund m Germanic
Old German form of Sigmund.
Sigismondo m Italian (Rare)
Italian form of Sigismund.
Sigismund m German (Rare), Germanic
Form of Sigmund in which the first element is sigis, an extended form of sigu. Saint Sigismund was a 6th-century king of the Burgundians. This was also the name of kings of Poland and a ruler of the Holy Roman Empire.
Sigitas m Lithuanian
Possibly originally a diminutive of names beginning with the Old German element sigu meaning "victory".
Sigiwald m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements sigu "victory" and walt "power, authority".
Sigiward m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements sigu "victory" and wart "guard, guardian". It is a cognate of Sigurd.
Sigmund m German, Norwegian, English, Norse Mythology
Derived from the Old German elements sigu "victory" and munt "protection" (or in the case of the Scandinavian cognate, from Old Norse sigr and mundr). An early variant of this name was Sigismund, borne by a 6th-century saint and king of the Burgundians. In the Norse Völsungasaga Sigmund is the hero Sigurd's father, the bearer of the powerful sword Gram. A notable bearer was the Austrian psychologist Sigmund Freud (1856-1939), the creator of the revolutionary theory of psychoanalysis.
Sigvard m Swedish
Swedish form of Sigiward, the continental Germanic cognate of Sigurd.
Sikke m Frisian
Originally a short form of names beginning with the Old German element sigu meaning "victory".
Siothrún m Irish
Irish form of Geoffrey.
Sivert m Norwegian, Swedish
Norwegian and Swedish form of Sievert.
Siward m Germanic
Variant of Sigiward.
Sjarel m Limburgish
Limburgish form of Charles.
Sjoerd m Frisian, Dutch
Frisian form of Sigurd.
Sjra m Limburgish
Limburgish form of Gerard. Its spelling has been influenced by the French pronunciation of Gérard.
Storm m & f English (Modern), Dutch (Modern), Danish (Modern), Norwegian (Modern)
From the vocabulary word, ultimately from Old English or Old Dutch storm, or in the case of the Scandinavian name, from Old Norse stormr. It is unisex as an English name, but typically masculine elsewhere.
Tammaro m Italian
Italian form of the Germanic name Thancmar, which was composed of the elements thank meaning "thought, consideration, thanks" (Old High German danc, Old Frankish þank) and mari meaning "famous". This was the name of a 5th-century saint, of Vandalic origin, a bishop of Atella in Campania, Italy.
Tancred m Old Norman
Norman form of the Germanic name Thancrat meaning "thought and counsel", derived from the elements thank meaning "thought, consideration, thanks" (Old High German danc, Old Frankish þank) and rat meaning "counsel, advice". This name was common among the medieval Norman nobility of southern Italy, being the name of the founder of the Hauteville family. It was borne by a leader of the First Crusade, described by Torquato Tasso in his epic poem Jerusalem Delivered (1580).
Tancrède m French (Rare)
French form of Tancred. This is the name of a 1702 opera by André Campra based on Torquato Tasso's epic poem Jerusalem Delivered. It is also the name of a 1759 play by Voltaire.
Tancredi m Italian
Italian form of Tancred appearing in the epic poem Jerusalem Delivered (1580) by Torquato Tasso. The tale was adapted by Gioachino Rossini for his opera Tancredi (1813).
Tancredo m Portuguese (Rare), Spanish (Rare)
Portuguese and Spanish form of Tancred.
Tel m English (British)
Short form of Terence or Terry 1.
Telman m Azerbaijani
Soviet-era name derived from the usual Azerbaijani spelling of the surname of the German communist party leader Ernst Thälmann (1886-1944; see Thälmann).
Téo m Portuguese
Short form of Teodoro and other names that begin with Teo.
Teo m & f Spanish, Italian, Croatian, Slovene, Georgian
Short form of Teodoro and other names that begin with Teo. In Georgian this is a feminine name, a short form of Teona.
Teobaldo m Spanish, Portuguese (Rare), Italian (Rare)
Spanish, Portuguese and Italian form of Theobald.
Terry 1 m & f English
From an English surname that was derived from the medieval name Thierry, a Norman French form of Theodoric.
Thancmar m Germanic
Old German form of Tammaro.
Thancrat m Germanic
Old German form of Tancred.
Thelonius m Various (Rare)
Latinized form of Tielo (see Till). A famous bearer was jazz musician Thelonious Monk (1917-1982).
Theo m English, German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish
Short form of Theodore, Theobald and other names that begin with Theo.
Theobald m English (Rare), Germanic
Means "bold people", derived from the Old German elements theod meaning "people" (Old High German diota, Old Frankish þeoda) and bald meaning "bold, brave". It was borne by a 6th-century Frankish king of Austrasia. The Normans brought the name to England, where it joined an existing Old English cognate. The medieval forms Tibald and Tebald were commonly Latinized as Theobaldus. It was rare by the 20th century.
Theodard m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements theod meaning "people" (Old High German diota, Old Frankish þeoda) and hart meaning "hard, firm, brave, hardy". This name was borne by a 7th-century Frankish saint and martyr, a bishop of Maastricht.
Theoderich m Germanic
Old German form of Theodoric.
Theodoar m & f Germanic
Germanic name composed of the elements theod meaning "people" (Old High German diota, Old Frankish þeoda) and war meaning "aware, cautious".
Theodoard m Germanic
Germanic name composed of the elements theod meaning "people" (Old High German diota, Old Frankish þeoda) and wart meaning "guard, guardian".
Theothelm m Germanic
Old German form of Diethelm.
Theotleib m Germanic
Old German form of Detlef.
Theotman m Germanic
Old German form of Thijmen.
Theudebald m Germanic
Old German form of Theobald.
Theudemar m Germanic
Variant of Theudemer.
Theudemer m Germanic
Old German form of Theodemir. Theudemer (or Theodemer) was a 5th-century king of the Franks.
Theudhar m Germanic
Old German form of Dieter.
Theudofrid m Germanic
Old German form of Dietfried.
Thibaud m French
Variant of Thibault.
Thibault m French
French form of Theobald.
Thibaut m French
Variant of Thibault.
Thiemo m Germanic
Old German form of Timo 2.
Thierry m French
French form of Theodoric. It was very popular in France from the 1950s, peaking in the mid-1960s before falling away. A famous bearer is the French former soccer player Thierry Henry (1977-).
Thietmar m Germanic
Variant of Theudemer.
Thijmen m Dutch
Dutch form of the Germanic name Theotman, derived from the elements theod meaning "people" (Old High German diota, Old Dutch thiad) and man meaning "person, man".
Thilo m German
Variant of Till. Saint Thillo was a 7th-century man of Saxony who was kidnapped and brought to Flanders by raiders. After his release he became a priest and did missionary work in France.
Tibby f & m English
Diminutive of Tabitha or Theobald.
Tiede m Frisian
Frisian form of Diede.
Tiedemann m German (Archaic)
German form of Theotman (see Thijmen).
Tielo m Medieval German
Earlier form of Till.
Ties m Dutch
Diminutive of Matthijs, as well as Diederik and other names beginning with Old High German diota or Old Frankish þeoda meaning "people".
Tiidrik m Estonian (Archaic)
Estonian form of Theodoric.
Tiit m Estonian
Originally a short form of Tiidrik, now used independently.
Tijmen m Dutch
Variant of Thijmen.
Till m German
From Tielo, a medieval Low German diminutive of Dietrich and other names beginning with Old High German diota or Old Frankish þeoda meaning "people". Till Eulenspiegel is a trickster in German folklore.
Tilman m German
Combination of Till and Old German man meaning "person, man". A notable bearer was the German sculptor Tilman Riemenschneider (1460-1531).
Tilo m German
Variant of Till.
Tim m English, German, Dutch, Slovene, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish
Short form of Timothy or (in Germany) Dietmar. It is borne by the fictional character Tiny Tim, the ill son of Bob Cratchit in Charles Dickens' novel A Christmas Carol (1843).
Timo 2 m German, Dutch
From Thiemo, an old short form of Thietmar (see Dietmar).
Tjaard m Frisian
Frisian form of Theodoard or Theodard.
Tjaart m Afrikaans
Afrikaans form of Tjaard.
Tjeerd m Frisian, Dutch
Frisian form of Theodoard or Theodard.
Tybalt m Literature
The name of a cousin of Juliet killed by Romeo in William Shakespeare's drama Romeo and Juliet (1596). The character earlier appears as Tebaldo, an Italian form of Theobald, in Luigi Da Porto's novella Giulietta e Romeo (1524), one of Shakespeare's sources. Shakespeare was also inspired by the character of Tybalt the Cat (from Thibault the French form of Theobald) in medieval fables of Reynard the Fox (evidenced by Mercutio calling Tybalt the "prince of cats").
Ubaldo m Spanish, Italian
From the Old German name Hugbald, derived from the elements hugu "mind, spirit, thought" and bald "bold, brave". This name was borne by a 12th-century saint who was a bishop of Gubbio, Italy.
Uberto m Italian
Italian form of Hubert.
Udo 1 m German
Variant of Otto.
Ueli m German (Swiss)
Swiss diminutive of Ulrich.
Uģis m Latvian
Latvian variant of Hugo.
Ugo 1 m Italian
Italian form of Hugh.
Uilleag m Irish
Either an Irish form of the Old Norse name Hugleikr, or else a diminutive of Uilliam.
Uilleam m Scottish Gaelic
Scottish Gaelic form of William.
Uilliam m Irish
Irish form of William.
Ulderico m Italian
Italian form of Odalric (see Ulrich).
Uldis m Latvian
Diminutive of Ulrihs, now used independently. This is the name of a character in the play Pūt, vējiņi! (1913) by the Latvian playwright Rainis.
Uli m & f German
Diminutive of Ulrich or Ulrike.
Ulick m Irish
Anglicized form of Uilleag.
Ulli m & f German
Diminutive of Ulrich or Ulrike.
Ulric m English (Rare)
Middle English form of the Old English name Wulfric. When it is used in modern times, it is usually as a variant of Ulrich.
Ulrich m German, Germanic
From the Old German name Odalric, derived from the element uodil "heritage" combined with rih "ruler, king". This was the name of two German saints. Another famous bearer was Ulrich Zwingli (1484-1531), also known as Huldrych, the leader of the Protestant Reformation in Switzerland.
Ulrihs m Latvian (Rare)
Latvian form of Ulrich.
Ulrik m Danish, Swedish, Norwegian
Scandinavian form of Ulrich.
Umberto m Italian
Italian form of Humbert. A famous bearer was Italian author Umberto Eco (1932-2016).
Urh m Slovene
Slovene form of Ulrich.
Utz m German
Diminutive of Ulrich.
Vaast m Flemish, Norman, Picard
Flemish, Norman and Picard form of Vedastus.
Vagner m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Variant of Wagner.
Valdir m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Possibly a variant of Valdemar or Valdomiro.
Valdomiro m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Portuguese form of Waldemar.
Valéry m French
Derived from the Old German elements walah "foreigner, Celt, Roman" and rih "ruler, king". It has been frequently confused with the name Valère. Saint Walaric (or Valery) was a 7th-century Frankish monk who founded an abbey near Leuconaus at the mouth of the Somme River.
Valmir 2 m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Possibly a variant of Valdemar or Valdomiro.
Válter m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Portuguese variant form of Walter.
Valter m Italian, Swedish, Slovene, Croatian, Estonian
Form of Walter used in several languages.
Valters m Latvian
Latvian form of Walter.
Valtteri m Finnish
Finnish form of Walter.
Vanderlei m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Derived from the surname Vanderlei, itself a Brazilian form of the Dutch surname Van Der Leij.
Vauquelin m Medieval French
Old French form of the Norman name Walchelin, derived from Old Frankish walh or Old High German walah meaning "foreigner, Celt, Roman" (Proto-Germanic *walhaz).
Vedast m History (Ecclesiastical)
Variant of Vedastus.
Vedastus m History (Ecclesiastical)
Possibly a Latinized form of a Germanic or Celtic name, possibly Germanic Widogast. This was the name of a 6th-century saint who helped to convert the Frankish king Clovis to Christianity. He is called Gaston in French and Vaast in Flemish.
Veeti m Finnish
Finnish diminutive of Fredrik or Ferdinand.
Velvel m Yiddish (Rare)
Means "little wolf" in Yiddish, a diminutive of װאָלףֿ (volf) meaning "wolf". This is a vernacular form of Zeev.
Vendel m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Wendel.
Vendelín m Czech, Slovak
Czech and Slovak form of Wendelin.
Veremund m Germanic (Latinized)
Latinized form of a Germanic name, probably Waramunt, derived from either war "aware, cautious" or war "true" combined with munt "protection". This was the name of a 5th-century king of Galicia (from the Germanic tribe of the Suebi). It was later the name of kings of Asturias and León, though their names are usually spelled in the Spanish form Bermudo.
Verner m Danish, Swedish
Scandinavian form of Werner.
Vico m Italian
Italian short form of Lodovico.
Vilĉjo m Esperanto
Esperanto diminutive of William.
Vilém m Czech
Czech form of William.
Vilhelm m Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Finnish
Scandinavian and Finnish form of William.
Vilhelmas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of William.
Vilhelmi m Finnish (Rare)
Finnish form of William.
Vilhelmo m Esperanto
Esperanto form of William.
Vilhelms m Latvian
Latvian form of William.
Vilhjálmur m Icelandic
Icelandic form of William.
Vilho m Finnish
Finnish diminutive of Vilhelm, used independently.
Vili m Hungarian, Slovene, Finnish
Diminutive of Vilmos, Viljem or Vilhelm.
Viliam m Slovak
Slovak form of William.
Viliame m Fijian
Fijian form of William.
Viliami m Tongan
Tongan form of William.
Vilim m Croatian
Croatian form of William.
Vilis m Latvian
Latvian form of William.
Viljam m Finnish
Finnish form of William.
Viljami m Finnish
Finnish form of William.
Viljem m Slovene
Slovene form of William.
Viljo m Finnish
Finnish diminutive of Vilhelm, used independently.
Vilko m Slovene, Croatian
Slovene and Croatian diminutive of William.
Villads m Danish
Danish form of Willehad.
Ville m Finnish, Swedish
Finnish and Swedish diminutive of Vilhelm and other names beginning with Vil.
Villem m Estonian
Estonian form of William.
Villum m Danish
Danish variant of Vilhelm.
Vilmos m Hungarian
Hungarian form of William.
Vilson m Portuguese (Brazilian)
Brazilian variant of Wilson.
Vitold m Russian, Ukrainian
Russian and Ukrainian form of Witold.
Volker m German
Derived from the Old German element folk "people" combined with heri "army".
Volkhard m German (Rare)
Derived from the Old German elements folk "people" and hart "hard, brave".
Volkmar m German
Derived from the Old German element folk "people" combined with mari "famous".
Vygantas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Wigand.
Wace m Old Norman
Norman form of Wazo. This name was borne by a 12th-century Norman poet from the island of Jersey.
Wagner m Portuguese (Brazilian)
From the German surname Wagner meaning "wagon maker, cartwright". A notable bearer of the surname was the German composer Richard Wagner (1813-1883).
Walahelin m Germanic (Hypothetical)
Old German form of Vauquelin.
Walahfrid m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements walah "foreigner, Celt, Roman" and fridu "peace".
Walaric m Germanic
Old German form of Valéry.
Walchelin m Old Norman
Norman form of Vauquelin.
Waldebert m Germanic
Germanic name composed of the elements walt "power, authority" and beraht "bright". This was the name of a 7th-century Frankish saint from Luxeuil (called Valbert or Gaubert in French).
Waldek m Polish
Polish diminutive of Waldemar.
Waldemar m German, Polish, Germanic
From the Old German elements walt "power, authority" and mari "famous", also used as a translation of the Slavic cognate Vladimir.
Waldhar m Germanic
Old German form of Walter.
Waldo 2 m Germanic
Originally a short form of Germanic names containing the Old Frankish element wald or Old High German element walt meaning "power, authority" (Proto-Germanic *waldaz). This was the name of an 8th-century abbot of Reichenau. It was also borne by the 12th-century French merchant Peter Waldo, who founded the religious order of the Waldensians.
Waldomar m Germanic
Old German variant of Waldemar.
Walhberht m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements walah "foreigner, Celt, Roman" and beraht "bright".
Walherich m Germanic
Old German form of Valéry.
Wallie m English
Diminutive of Walter or Wallace.
Wally m English
Diminutive of Walter or Wallace.
Walt m English
Short form of Walter. A famous bearer was the American animator and filmmaker Walt Disney (1901-1966).
Wálter m Spanish, Portuguese
Spanish and Portuguese variant form of Walter, more common in South America than Europe. It is often written without the diacritic.
Walter m English, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Polish, Italian, Germanic
From the Germanic name Waltheri meaning "power of the army", from the elements walt "power, authority" and heri "army". In medieval German tales (notably Waltharius by Ekkehard of Saint Gall) Walter of Aquitaine is a heroic king of the Visigoths. The name was also borne by an 11th-century French saint, Walter of Pontoise. The Normans brought it to England, where it replaced the Old English cognate Wealdhere.... [more]
Walther m German, Germanic
German variant of Walter. This name was borne by the 13th-century German poet Walther von der Vogelweide.
Waltheri m Germanic
Old German form of Walter.
Wandal m Germanic
Old German form of Wendel.
Wandalin m Germanic
Old German form of Wendelin.
Waramunt m Germanic
Old German form of Veremund.
Warin m Germanic
Old German name derived from the element war meaning "aware, cautious" (Proto-Germanic *waraz, and the related verbs *warjaną "to ward off" and *warnōną "to ward off").
Warinheri m Germanic
Old German form of Werner.
Warner m English
From a Norman surname that was derived from the given name Werner.
Wat m English
Medieval short form of Walter.
Watse m Frisian
Possibly a Frisian diminutive of Walter.
Watson m English
From an English surname meaning "son of Wat". A famous fictional bearer of the surname was Dr. Watson, the assistant to Sherlock Holmes in Arthur Conan Doyle's mystery stories beginning in 1887.
Wazo m Germanic
Originally a short form of names beginning with Old Frankish waddi or Old High German wetti meaning "pledge" (Proto-Germanic *wadją), or alternatively war meaning "aware, cautious" (Proto-Germanic *waraz).
Wendel m & f Dutch (Rare), German (Rare), Portuguese (Brazilian)
Old short form of Germanic names beginning with the element wentil meaning "a Vandal". The Vandals were a Germanic tribe who invaded Spain and North Africa in the 5th century. Their tribal name, which may mean "wanderer", has often been confused with that of the Wends, a Slavic people living between the Elbe and the Oder.... [more]
Wendelin m German, Germanic
Old diminutive of Germanic names beginning with the element wentil (see Wendel). Saint Wendelin was a 6th-century hermit of Trier in Germany.
Wendell m English
From a German and Dutch surname that was derived from the given name Wendel. In America this name has been given in honour of the poet Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. (1809-1894) and his son the Supreme Court justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. (1841-1935). The elder's middle name came from his mother's maiden name (which had been brought to America by a Dutch ancestor in the form Wendel, with the extra l added later).
Wenilo m Germanic
Originally a short form of Germanic names beginning with Old Frankish wani or Old High German wan meaning "hope, expectation".
Werdheri m Germanic
Old German form of Werther.
Werner m German, Dutch
From an Old German name derived from the element warin, related to war meaning "aware, cautious", combined with heri meaning "army". This was the name of a 13th-century boy from Oberwesel, Germany who was formerly regarded as a saint. He is no longer recognized as such by the Church. Another famous bearer was the German physicist Werner Heisenberg (1901-1976).
Wernher m German, Germanic
Variant of Werner. A famous bearer was the German-American rocket engineer Wernher von Braun (1912-1977).
Werther m German (Rare)
Derived from the Old German elements werd "worthy" and heri "army". Goethe used this name in his novel The Sorrows of Young Werther (1774).
Wessel m Frisian, Dutch
Old Frisian diminutive of Werner.
Wetzel m German (Rare)
Diminutive of Werner.
Wibo m Frisian
Variant of Wiebe.
Widald m Germanic
Old German name composed of the elements witu "wood" and walt "power, authority".
Wide m Frisian
Frisian form of Wido.
Wido m Germanic
Originally a short form of names beginning with the Old Frankish or Old Saxon element widu, Old High German witu, meaning "wood" (Proto-Germanic *widuz). This was the name of two 11th-century saints, one from Belgium and one from northern Italy, both commonly called Guido or Guy. From early times this name has been confused with the Latin name Vitus.
Widogast m Germanic
Old German name composed of the elements witu "wood" and gast "guest, stranger".
Widukind m Germanic
Old Saxon name composed of the elements widu "wood" and kind "child". This was the name of an 8th-century Saxon leader who fought against the Franks, in the end unsuccessfully.
Wiebe m Frisian, Dutch
Originally a Frisian short form of Wigberht (and other names starting with the Old German element wig meaning "war" and a second element beginning with b).
Wiegand m German (Rare)
Variant of Wigand.
Wigand m German (Rare), Germanic
Derived from the Old German word wigant meaning "warrior".
Wigberht m Anglo-Saxon, Germanic
Derived from the Old English elements wig "battle" and beorht "bright". This is also a continental Germanic equivalent, derived from the Old German elements wig and beraht. The name was borne by an 8th-century English saint who did missionary work in Frisia and Germany.
Wigbert m German
German form of Wigberht.
Wigbrand m Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements wig "war" and brant "fire, torch, sword".
Wighard m Germanic
Old German name composed of the elements wig "battle" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy", a cognate of Wigheard.
Wigmar m Germanic
Old German form (possibly) of Guiomar.
Wil m & f English, Dutch
Short form of William and other names beginning with Wil.
Wilbert m Dutch
Means "bright will", derived from the Old German elements willo "will, desire" and beraht "bright".
Wilfried m German
German cognate of Wilfred.
Wilhelm m German, Polish, Germanic
German cognate of William. This was the name of two German emperors. It was also the middle name of several philosophers from Germany: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770-1831), Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche (1844-1900), and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz (1646-1716), who was also a notable mathematician. Another famous bearer was the physicist Wilhelm Röntgen (1845-1923).
Wilhelmus m Germanic (Latinized), Dutch
Latinized form of Wilhelm. This is also the official Dutch form of the name, used on birth certificates but commonly rendered Willem in daily life.
Wilkie m English
From an English surname that was originally derived from a diminutive of the given name William.
Wilkin m Medieval English
Medieval diminutive of William.
Wilky m Medieval English
Medieval diminutive of William.
Will m English
Short form of William and other names beginning with Will. A famous bearer is American actor Will Smith (1968-), whose full name is Willard.
Willard m English
From an English surname that was derived from the Old German given name Willihard (or the Old English cognate Wilheard).
Wille m Swedish
Variant of Ville.
Willehad m Germanic
Old German or Old English name derived from the elements willo "will, desire" and hadu "battle, combat". This was the name of an 8th-century Northumbrian saint active in Frisia and Saxony.
Willehelm m Germanic
Old German form of William.
Willem m Dutch
Dutch form of William. Willem the Silent, Prince of Orange, was the leader of the Dutch revolt against Spain that brought about the independence of the Netherlands. He is considered the founder of the Dutch royal family. In English he is commonly called William of Orange.
Willi m German
Diminutive of Wilhelm.
William m English
From the Germanic name Willehelm meaning "will helmet", composed of the elements willo "will, desire" and helm "helmet, protection". An early saint by this name was the 8th-century William of Gellone, a cousin of Charlemagne who became a monk. The name was common among the Normans, and it became extremely popular in England after William the Conqueror was recognized as the first Norman king of England in the 11th century. From then until the modern era it has been among the most common of English names (with John, Thomas and Robert).... [more]
Willian m Portuguese (Brazilian), Spanish (Latin American)
Variant of William used in Latin America.
Willibald m German, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements willo "will, desire" and bald "bold, brave". Saint Willibald was an 8th-century bishop of Eichstätt, Bavaria.
Willibert m Germanic
Old German form of Wilbert.
Willie m & f English
Masculine or feminine diminutive of William. Notable bearers include the American baseball player Willie Mays (1931-2024) and the musician Willie Nelson (1933-).
Willifrid m Germanic
From the Old German elements willo "will, desire" and fridu "peace" (a cognate of Wilfred).
Willihard m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements willo "will, desire" and hart "hard, firm, brave, hardy".
Willimar m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements willo "will, desire" and mari "famous". It is a cognate of Wilmǣr.
Williric m Germanic
Old German name derived from the elements willo "will, desire" and rih "ruler, king".
Willis m English
From an English surname that was derived from Will, a diminutive of William.
Willy m & f English, German, Dutch
Diminutive of William, Wilhelm or Willem. It is both masculine and feminine in Dutch.
Wilmot m & f Medieval English
Medieval diminutive and feminine form of William.
Wilson m English, Spanish (Latin American), Portuguese
From an English surname meaning "son of William". The surname was borne by Woodrow Wilson (1856-1924), the American president during World War I.
Wim m Dutch
Dutch short form of Willem.
Winfried m German
German form of Winfred.
Winifrid m Germanic
Old German cognate of Winfrið.
Wiremu m Maori
Maori form of William.
Wischard m Old Norman
Norman form of Guiscard.
Witek m Polish
Diminutive of Witold or Wit.
Witołd m Polish (Archaic)
Polish variant of Witold.
Witold m Polish
Polish form of Vytautas. Alternatively it could be derived from the Old German name Widald.
Wob m Frisian (Archaic)
Frisian diminutive of Germanic names beginning with the element walt meaning "power, authority".
Wobbe m Frisian
Originally a Frisian short form of Waldebert (and other names starting with the Old German element walt meaning "power, authority" and a second element beginning with b).
Wolf m German, Yiddish, English (Rare), Germanic
Short form of Wolfgang, Wolfram and other names containing the Old German element wolf meaning "wolf" (Proto-Germanic *wulfaz). It can also be simply from the German or English word. As a Jewish name it can be considered a vernacular form of Zeev.
Wolfdietrich m Literature, German (Rare)
Compound of Wolf and Dietrich. Wolfdietrich is the title hero of a 13th-century Middle High German epic poem. By some traditions he is the grandfather of the more famous hero Dietrich von Bern.
Wolfgang m German, Germanic
Derived from the Old German elements wolf meaning "wolf" and gang meaning "path, way". Saint Wolfgang was a 10th-century bishop of Regensburg. Two other famous bearers of this name were Austrian composer Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756-1791) and German novelist and poet Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749-1832).
Wolfhard m German
Derived from the Old German element wolf meaning "wolf" combined with hart meaning "hard, firm, brave, hardy".
Wolfram m German
Derived from the Old German element wolf meaning "wolf" combined with hram meaning "raven". Saint Wolfram (or Wulfram) was a 7th-century archbishop of Sens. This name was also borne by the 13th-century German poet Wolfram von Eschenbach, the author of Parzival.
Wöllem m Limburgish
Limburgish form of William.
Wolter m Dutch
Dutch variant form of Walter.
Wout m Dutch
Short form of Wouter.
Wouter m Dutch
Dutch form of Walter.
Wubbe m Frisian
Variant of Wobbe.
Wulf m German
Variant of Wolf.
Wulfgang m Germanic
Old German form of Wolfgang.
Wulfhard m Germanic
Old German form of Wolfhard.
Wulfhram m Germanic
Old German form of Wolfram.
Wulfram m Germanic
Old German form of Wolfram.
Wullem m Limburgish
Limburgish form of William.
Wum m Limburgish
Short form of Wullem.
Ysbrand m Dutch (Rare)
Variant of IJsbrand.
Yves m French
Medieval French form of Ivo 1. This was the name of two French saints: an 11th-century bishop of Chartres and a 13th-century parish priest and lawyer, also known as Ivo of Kermartin, the patron saint of Brittany.
Yvo m Dutch
Variant of Ivo 1.
Yvon m French
Medieval diminutive of Yves.
Žiga m Slovene
Slovene form of Sigmund.
Zigfrīds m Latvian
Latvian form of Siegfried.
Zigmantas m Lithuanian
Lithuanian form of Sigmund.
Zigmārs m Latvian
Latvian form of Siegmar.
Žigmund m Slovak
Slovak form of Sigmund.
Zikmund m Czech
Czech form of Sigmund.
Zsiga m Hungarian (Rare)
Diminutive of Zsigmond.
Zsigmond m Hungarian
Hungarian form of Sigmund.
Zygfryd m Polish
Polish form of Siegfried.
Zygmunt m Polish
Polish form of Sigmund.